# Chapter 2

## Kesra


Deep in the Arc'ala Principalities, on a planet with only zero-point-five lawmasters, a girl rolled some dice and took several men for all they were worth. Kesra was good at things like that. *That* wasn't actually the hard part. The hard part was extraditing oneself from angry smugglers convinced you had cheated them. Which, of course, she had.

On a cold, dusty evening in the spaceport of Tewani, Kesra had just won what she called the *bones hand*. It was a hand where, while not a big pull in and of itself, had her opponents looking at their stacks and realizing in their bones that they wouldn't be able to buy themselves back into the game. 

This was also usually accompanied with an *I've been swindled* feeling. 

So she gathered her chips with a flourish, giving a small curtsy despite not wearing anything approximating a dress, and said, 

"Hope to see you around Hellantia!" before darting through the casino and out into the streets. She'd cash her chips the next day, when the smugglers had made their way off-planet. 

As she slipped into an alley, she giggled at the confused look on their faces as she left. 

She liked to think it was her sparklingly off-kilter personality, but in all likelihood, it was the result of them trying and failing to perform mental geometric math, or not recognizing her far-distant term for the galaxy. The First Galactic Council had done an admirable job carving a common language out of the many species that had been present, but of all words in the lexicon, each planet tended to hang tightly to its ancient term for the galaxy itself. 

Slipping between sheetmetal alleys, she made her way toward the hovel her crew was staying in. Not a thieving crew, though she'd rolled with plenty of those. No, a real-god-damned-space-ship crew. And she was a part of it. 

The only problem was they didn't have a ship. 

Don't have a ship *anymore*, she thought bitterly, as the image of Skaff Mcrue flashed unpleasantly across her thoughts. But that was going to change soon. Especially now that they had some credits to work with. 

They'd been tracking their own goddamned ship for six months now, forced to hitch rides in freighters and refugee transports, wasting valuable coin on informants to uncover where Skaff had absconded to next. Tewani was the closest they'd gotten. Skaff was actually *here*, supposedly, gambling away some earnings. That meant their ship was here, too, on one of the many launch pads that dotted the exterior of the town. They'd sent Grouch out to try and sniff it out. 

Kesra's job had been to monitor the gambling dens, and either look for Skaff or find out how long he'd be off-ship. 

*Which you failed to do,* she thought, passing a body hanging limp over the side of a dive's window and very responsibly electing not to investigate its pockets.

It wasn't *entirely* her fault. Tewani gambling houses were not well-known for letting people enter and just sneak around without *actually* gambling. She had to sit down, really, to maintain her cover. Might as well earn some credits too.

And she'd gathered some valuable intel. Most of it was about *other* gangs in the area, but hey, some of those could attack her crew later, and then her crew would be glad she'd been listening. Most importantly, while she hadn't been able to find Skaff amongst the thousand dens of Tewani's Undertowers, she *had* heard some smugglers laughing that Skaff and his crew were deep into a crawl, and currently too inebriated to move, apparently. 

That meant they had a window. 

She arrived at the hovel, opening a hatch in the ground and sliding down a small ladder through a hole into an unadorned basement space in which she and the rest of the crew had been sleeping on pallets. The owner above was charging them a dumb and frankly insulting amount of credits to sleep there, claiming it was insurance in case they were smugglers. They *were* smugglers, but not the type anyone on Tewani had to worry about. Nor did they have anything to smuggle at the moment. Or a ship to smuggle it with.

Darting behind a half-wall, Kesra peeled off the now-sweaty Kamiri she'd been wearing topside, pressing a pad on the forearm to deactivate the heating coils. The suit was a thick, heavy rubber insulating the heating elements, and came with extra weight dispersed throughout to allow species of all kind to to move about Te'ani's surface without bounding recklessly in its low gravity. 

Suit off, Kesra hopped lightly on her feet and glided upward, easily touching the ceiling eight or so feet above. Pushing off it, she returned down to the surface and caught herself on a wall handle. She loved low-$g$ planets. If she weren't a hairs-breadth away from getting her ship back, she'd be out on the surface leaping from rooftop to rooftop. 

She threw on a loose-fitting shift and tied a belt tight at its waist. To this she attached several small tool loops and kits which affixed with a magnetic snap. Finally, she slid her feet into a pair of weighted boots, which were not as good as a Kamiri at keeping one stable but were a lot more comfortable. The she counted her chips. She never counted during the games. 


As she stepped back out into the common space, she heard the hatch clang open, and a figure came floating down, ignoring the ladder and thumping into the packed ground below. 

Jericho was the best captain Kesra had ever worked under, which was to say, the first captain who hadn't spaced her for her attitude, tried to steal her cut of a job, or propositioned her in the engine bay. 

It might have had something to do with the fact that they were a robot. Or --- not a robot, exactly --- Kesra corrected herself. Autonoma tended to bristle at the term, which they prescribed to machines which, regardless of how complex their decision trees, were ultimately not sentient. 

Jericho *was* sentient. If anything proved it, it was their capacity to change --- for example, the fact that when Kesra first boarded *Alacrity*, Jericho *hated* card games (finding them, he claimed, trivial). But six months of Kesra throwing inane, baffling, (sometimes made up) games at them actually brought them around. Now Jericho would proposition her for games of Smuggler. 

Kesra gave Jericho a grin, tossing a chip in their direction. Their body was formed of several interlocking metal sections, treaded wheels at their base which could articulate around to handle stairs, six rod-like arms (they kept four stowed at their back most of the time) with various exchangeable implements, and above their "torso," a "head" that was just a sensory array of cameras and recievers. She knew the head was for her benefit --- Jericho had duplicates of all those receivers in their body as well. 

As the chip approached, Jericho made no move to catch it, and Kesra watched as instead, a small hole opened in their chest, winking the chip away into their innards. 

"Hey! I won those fair and square." 

"This statement has a vanishingly small probability," Jericho replied, as their body began to make a series of clanking, whirring, and otherwise alarming noises. Another hole opened up elsewhere on their rectangular torso, and the chip came flying back at her through the low-$g$ room. 

She caught it --- instantly regretting it as she yelped in pain and started shaking out her stinging hand. 

"Apologies, Handler Kesra. My process of calibrating human pain tolerance continues. Customarily we find ourselves in situations for which launched projectiles are to be maximally accelerated, as you well know. I have cleaned your chip, by the way,"

She glanced down to see the chip in her hand was gleaming and polished. Had it really been green before? She'd thought it was brown. *Sweet.* The green ones were worth more.

"Analysis indicates forty-seven foreign substances present in the residue coating the chip; thirty-five of which were standard --- oils, dust, skin cells, the like --- while ten were illicit in nature... I am not aware of the `street' name for these compounds, and gather you would balk at their chemical designations."

"Got that right," Kesra said too quickly, then grinned. "Be careful you don't get high processing those, though." Jericho emanated a whirring sound that she took to be a scoff. 

"While it would be pleasant to continue to polish your winnings, analyze the drug consumption habits of Tewani’s undertowers, and shoot shit, I do believe Grouch has located Alacrity."

"Holy shit Jericho, why didn’t you lead with that?! Also, it’s shoot-the-shit."

"Noted, Handler Kesra. I dallied as a slight delay was preferable. Nil and Faya have yet to exfiltrate the central registry, and recovering Alacrity will be an all-hands operation."

Kesra grinned wolfishly. "Can you imagine, Jericho? We’re so close to finally getting home."

Jericho paused, cocking his receptors slightly. "I am aware we are nearly a galactic radius away from the my home system within the Princeps Autonoma, but as I’ve often explained, the quibits in my processor remain entangled with those in the Hisr, allowing me to communicate instantly—"

"*Alacrity*, Jericho," Kesra broke in. "I meant our ship."

"Oh." After a brief moment, Jericho slowly folded all six of his arms away stowing them behind his torso, a sign of respect and gratitude expressed in vulnerability. 


"It pleases me that you consider the ship we share a home," they said. "I did not expect such a thing, when I first set out."

"Alright, cool it, before I start getting misty eyed over here," Kesra panned, feeling a twinge of emotion in her throat nonetheless. "You’re a good captain, you treat us well, and your ship is better equipped than half the junk out there."

"Let’s go get her."
