# Chapter 11


The two stared at each other on the staircase, frozen in place. Snipe's hand hovered above his rapier, tucked under the suit jacket. He saw the half-orc woman's hands twitching as well, though he couldn't see an obvious weapon. 

"We can do this civilly, can't we," Snipe said, trying to sound casual. "I just want to talk." 

The woman stared at him with smouldering eyes, eyebrow raising slightly. 

Snipe took a step back up the stairs, slowly, watching her hands. 

"This is a bad place to get in a fight, no?" he said, gesturing to the enclosed, dank staircase around them, hoping to emphasize the upper ground he held. "Why don't we just head up to one of the offices?" 

The woman sneered.
"You shouldn't have come here," she said. "It is your funeral."

*Not ideal,* Snipe mused. Snipe took another careful step back; the figure below didn't follow, though he thought he noticed a slight glow at her fingertips. *Don't like that either,* he thought. 

Under his breath, he whispered the incantation which should, he hoped, reach Brim if she was near enough. 

"Found her," he muttered with some urgency, attempting not to move his lips in the process. "Back of theater, help needed."

He saw the woman cock her head slightly to the side, then smile. 

*Shit,* he thought, as she seemed to clock what he was doing. 

"Naughty boy," she said. "I guess we can't be civil." 

Snipe didn't wait for whatever came next. He turned and dived upward out of the staircase, feeling the suit on his back singe as a arcing burst of lightning seared across him. 

He tumbled into the hallway above, drawing his crossbow from where it hung at his back in the process, and loosed a shot down the stairs. He didn't have time to aim, but the staircase was so narrow that he heard a satisfying grunt as the bolt struck true. He ducked around the corner and drew his rapier, waiting for her next move.

-----

"Oh no. Guys, we gotta go!" Brim whispered, hearing Snipe's voice pierce her thoughts. The three had sidled around the edge of the crowd, trying to push through to the side hallway. They were just deciding whether to take turns meandering down when Brim inturrupted. 

"It sounds like he's in trouble," she said, leading them into the passageway. "I don't know how to pick locks, but we have to get through somehow."

At the end of the hall they saw that this was indeed a washroom, to one side, a single occupancy room, and to the other what appeared to simply be a long stone trough, angled to drain at the other end of the room. 

"How civilized," Ven deadpanned, as Jab looked on at the contraption quizzically. 

"Any doors?" Brim asked, looking around desperately. There didn't appear to be any. 

"Here," Jab called. She looked over to see him gesturing at a random spot along the woodpaneled walls of the hallway. "I feel a breeze," he explained. 

The three approached the panel. 

"It must be a secret door for the staff," Ven said. "I don't see any sort of mechanism." 

As she bent over to investigate, Brim raised a booted foot, sized up the door, and kicked at where she imagined a latch to be, sending Ven diving out of the way. The door slammed open with a loud crack, splintering at what was, it turned out, a simple latchkey on the other side. 

Ven gave her a betrayed look, but Brim was too focused on the nerves she'd heard come through from Snipe. She figured they were done being sneaky anyhow.

The three ran into the now opened hallway, and Brim led them toward the back of the theater. They ran past a few staff, one of whom noticed them enough to yell in their direction, but then seemingly had no time to follow up. 

"We probably have a minute or two before they send someone," Ven panted as they ran. "Let's try to be gone by then." 

Rounding the curve, Brim began to see the signs of the struggle --- charred wood along the hallway, a few hanging tapestries burning away, a crossbow bolt lodged in a wooden beam.

"I think we're in the right place," Jab said. 

The three of them slowed, peeking forward with some trepidation, until a deep, female voice none of them recognized emanated from a room up ahead. 

"You see, mercenary, that fighting those of us with the gift is of no use." 

Ven motioned for the group to stay silent, and they creeped forward and peeked inside. There, they found themselves looking at the back of the orange haired half-orc from the streets, looming over Snipe, his back against the far wall. His fur looked singed in places, but he seemed alive. She too appeared worse for wear, one bolt sticking out of her thigh, several cuts along her arms where she'd clearly been slashed at by Snipe's rapier. 

Brim moved to step into the room and tackle her, but Ven held her back, shaking her head. Then she stepped out instead, raising her hands and forming a complex sigil in the air. A whispered word into her hands, blown forward, and a ripple of iridescent mist curled toward the woman. 

It enveloped her, and they all watched as she swayed, her words beginning to slur, before she thumped to the ground, unconscious. 

*Wow, that's a lot safer than what I was going to do,* Brim thought, as the rest of them stepped inside and closed the door of the storeroom behind them. 

"About time you showed up," Snipe said with a growl. But he was grinning, and the growl subsided as his shifted form reverted to normal. "She's alive, right?"

"Of course," Ven said, looking affronted. "I just put her to sleep."

"Right right, healer not a fighter," Snipe laughed. "Keep telling yourself that." 

Ven pouted, but didn't have time to wallow as Jab brought up a more prescient point.

"What do we do with her? I don't think we can stay here..."

The four looked at each other. 

"I don't think we have any chance if we let her wake up," Snipe said. "She did *not* seem interested in talking on equal terms."

"What if we just propped her up like she was drunk, and carried her out of here?" Jab said. "You know, like support her on our shoulders, hood down?"

Ven did not seem convinced, but as the moment stretched onward, she said,

"I can't think of a better plan... drunken friend it is." She reached down and broke off the end of the crossbow bolt in the half-orc's leg. Brim grabbed a long, somewhat silly looking cloak from one of the racks, and they stood her up to drape it over her. 

They left the storeroom nervously, Snipe leading them to what he thought was the nearest exterior door. They made it halfway down the hallway to the exit before they heard the faint sounds of the music of from the theater die away, to be replaced by the ever louder-growing sounds of screams.