# Chapter 12


Jab's keen hearing was nearly overwhelmed as the screaming from the auditorium grew louder. The group looked at each other, panicked. They could see the exit door up ahead. 

"We have to get her out of here," Snipe began, before shaking his head sadly.

"We have to help," Ven whispered. Snipe nodded tersely, and quickly bent down to pick the lock of the nearest door, fumbling as the screaming grew louder still more voices adding to the chorus. The lock finally clicked an agonizing minute later, and they tried to gently place the half-orc down and closed the door behind her. 

"I don't know if she'll still be out when we get back," Ven warned. There was nothing they could do about that now, though. 

Jab raced ahead of the group, down the nearest hallway that led inward toward the auditorium. He burst through the door and found himself facing a nightmare. Crimson red undulating light spiraled and curled through the space, moving like at times like tentacles, or perhaps like lightning, through the space, spearing into the hundreds of people packed into the audience. Half of the originally-standing audience appeared to be unconscious on the floor, groaning loudly, the half still standing crying out in some type of agony. 

Jab's sensory detectors were highly detailed, his memory highly accurate. He knew precisely the unique color of the light suffusing the theater, felt the thrum of its sound. He'd seen it before. 

As the other three in his group stepped up beside him in horror, he heard Ven whisper,

"They used it." 

Jab quickly appraised his companions, and determined that the red light seemed to not be having an affect on any of them. *Guess it's a one time thing*, he thought, trying to push out the screams. Then a thought occured to him. 

"It's here you guys!" he yelled over the screams. "If they used it, it's in this room!"

The statement seemed to jog his companions out of their stupor, and the four of them immediately burst into the auditorium, seeking the source of the light. Stepping gingerly over groaning bodies, Jab scanned the light, trying to find where it was brightest. He tracked the tendrils back and down to the floorboards at his feet.

"The floor!" he called out. "They're under the stage!" 

His mind whirred. The stairs they'd seen from the back hallway were too far away. Instead, he leaped over to the stage itself, looking for trap doors that would allow understage access. Not seeing any, he growled in frustration, before taking a running leap off the stage and into the orchestral pit set off to the side. 

Dropping 10 feet down into it, he crashed into music stands, tumbling across recently vacated chairs as the orchestral players were also piled on the floor, rolling around clutching at their skin and crying out incoherently. 

Jab burst through the door of the pit and with relief found himself in a simple tunnel at the under-stage level. He sprinted down the hall until he found a large opening that led under the floor proper. 

The space was dark, lit only by a few everlight lanterns pegged to the wooden support beams that held up the floor above. The ground below was abhorantly sticky, likely with years of ale that had been spilled through the cracks in the floor above. He stepped forward, peering through the darkness --- for all his keen sight, darkness was not one of his strengths. But as he moved around the support beams, he saw a red, glowing light up ahead. *Got you*, he thought. 

Following his trail, he heard the others close behind him as he dashed forward toward the light. 

Weaving between pillars, he saw that there were four individuals surrounding the dragonseye, which was still pulsing out its red light. A small part of him wondered why it was going for so long --- hadn't it been just a split second explosion on the ship? 

He'd just leapt a fallen pillar to step within thirty feet of the group when they heard his approach, looking up to see him and the others behind. They immediately grabbed hands, forming a circle. Jab slowed in confusion, until with dismay he saw a glowing arcane circle appear on the ground below them. 

"No!" he shouted, leaping forward again, sprinting all out and lunging to tackle one of the four. 

His hands passed through empty air and he crashed into the ground, hard. The red light had vanished, the dragonseye gone, along with the four Tarkanan agents. He realized that the dragonseye had a sound --- a high pitched whine he almost hadn't registered. In the silence left after, he could only hear the groans of pain from the people above. He lay there for a moment, unwilling to move, as Ven, Brim, and Snipe slowly entered the space where the dragonseye had been. 

*We failed,* he thought. He could see it written on his friend's faces. 

----- 

Ven stood with Brim, Snipe, and Jab, supporting the unconscious half-orc leaned up against a wall on the opposite side of the square from the Diamond Theater. They all knew they should leave, but something compelled them to stay and see the aftermath of the attack. 

Half of the city square in front of the theater had been cordoned off by the Sharn Watch, who held back an ever-more rowdy crowd trying to push in and see what had happened. A medical triage area had been set up within the cordon, and Jorasco healers were methodically assessing patrons as they exited the theater, some on stretchers, others walking on their own or with help. 

Those who seemed shaken but otherwise uninjured were sent to sit on the ground in a large group, blankets over their shoulders, tea being distributed among them. To the other side... Ven shuddered. She knew the subtle signs the healers were leaving when a patient was no longer a patient. She felt guilt wrack her, despite knowing there was little she could've done. 

*How dare he,* she thought, her frustration bubbling over. *How Dare Merrix make it our responsibility to stop this?*

"Most people seemed to live," Brim said quietly as they watched, though even her typical optimistic tone had withered away. 

"Yeah," Ven responded in a shuddering whisper, "Lived to now bear an aberrant mark for which they'll be ostracised or even hunted." 

"It seemed to affect us differently," Jab said, attempting to put some sense onto it. "We were knocked out in a flash, and none of us were really injured. I noticed it kept putting out its light for a lot longer in there. I wonder why." 

Ven closed her eyes. They were good questions, important ones, but she couldn't bring herself to think about it. 

"We should go," she said. "The watch are starting to fan out and question the crowd." 

The four turned, Brim and Snipe holding up the half-orc and trying half successfully to make her appear at least partially conscious. They walked half a block before Ven hailed a skycoach, praying silently their pilot woudln't ask any questions about their clearly unconscious companion. 

True to Sharnian standards, the first skycoach that landed was piloted by a bored looking goblin who looked them all over, said 

"You all look like shit," and took off without another word.

-----

The four sat in the apartment with their chairs arrayed in a semicircle around the bound --- by Snipe, this time --- half-orc. They'd eaten some food and patched up some of Snipe's wounds, but the time was nearing when the woman was liable to wake up on her own. 

Snipe didn't give her that chance. He stepped up from his chair and gave her a light smack across the cheek. 

Her eyes opened with a start, and she immediately began wriggling against her bindings in panic until she saw Snipe shaking his head at her, looked around at the rest of them, and then narrowed her eyes, but stilled her motion. 

"I'm going to take your gag off," he said, slowly. "We've tied your fingers apart, so you won't be sending of any lightning. If we hear even the start of what sounds like an incantation, you'll be unconscious again in a heartbeat, and we'll have to do this all over again." 

Ven, sitting in her chair to the side, raised a hand, forming the beginnings of the sleeping curse between her fingers. *How do we feel about this,* she thought to herself. *Snipe seems... awfully practiced at this sort of thing.* It struck her how very little she knew these people, despite the inevitable bond that had been formed by their experience together. 

She shook off the thoughts, focusing on the task at hand. 

"When I take this off, we're going to have a conversation," Snipe was continuing. "A real one this time. We're not going to hurt you. That's *your* thing, not ours. But we want some answers. 

"And you should know that while you're not facing torture here, your choice is to either give us some simple, easy answers and be let free to return to your people, or to be handed over to the Sharn Watch, who I'm sure would be *very* interested to question you about your affiliations and activities." 

Snipe gestured to her ankle, where they'd discovered the aberrant dragonmark that confirmed the source of her powers and likely Tarkanan affiliation. He then slowly pulled the gag out of her mouth. 

The woman grunted and stretched her jaw around for a few moments. 

"I feel like a sack of Tella roots," she said. "What did you do, roll me here end over end?" 

Ven heard Jab giggle next to her. 

"Something like that," Snipe said. "What's your name?"

Ven saw the woman debate it, before shrugging and saying,

"My name is Dysentra. People call me Dys." 

*Alright,* Ven thought. *Now comes the hard part.*

-----

The group had spent roughly an hour debating what exactly to demand of the agent when they brought her around. Ultimately, they agreed that, like Sbar'in, on the airship, she would likely either lie or be unwilling to say anything incriminating about her group. 
They'd decided to instead try a different tack: demand she set up a meeting for them with her higher-ups, but then track her after releasing her. Ideally she'd lead them straight to Tarkanan HQ. And there... well, they were now highly aware of the high-pitched frequency in the back of their minds that indicated the device was near. 

*Stupid that I didn't notice it at the theater until it was gone,* Ven berated herself. But there was nothing to do but try again. 

"We want to talk to your bosses," Snipe said casually. "Do you think you can set up a meeting?"

Ven saw surprise flit across Dysentra's eyes before she raised an eyebrow and, smirking, said

"I don't think Mistress Tarkanan has any need to speak with you." 

Snipe nodded, pacing in front of her. 

"Fair enough," he said. "And maybe I'm wrong. But you seem like a pretty good agent. You were picked for two pretty important missions --- on the same day, no less! She may not want to talk to us, but do you think your mistress would be happy about losing an agent such as yourself permanently?" 

Dysentra didn't respond. 

"Thought not," Snipe continued. "So, how exactly do you communicate with your bosses? Safe house? Clandestine bar meetings?"

"Ha!" Dysentra barked. "If you think we meet face to face, you underestimate us."

"Ah, so you use caches around the city," Snipe mused thoughtfully. "Not bad, though they're a bit succeptible to being stumbled upon." 

Ven thought Dys looked a bit like she'd been slapped. Snipe seized the advantage. 

"Your caches must have some type of code or signature to identify them, especially if they're single use," Snipe said. "What is that symbol?" 

Dys was silent for a long time. Ven could almost see her weighing different lies in her head. Finally, she said,

"It's three tallies scratched and a triangle." 

She'd barely finished speaking when a slap echoed through the room. Dys jerked, looking stunned, eyes smarting, as Snipe pulled his hand back. Ven had to stifle a gasp.

"We're not stupid," Snipe said. You're going to have to try harder than telling us a known Boromar code. 

Ven shook her head slightly in amazement. She knew of the Boromar Clan, of course, they were the premier gang in the lower city, owners of gambling houses and brothels and running protection scams on plenty of businesses. How Snipe knew their coded symbols, though... 

Her stomach curdled at Snipe's use of violence, though she could see plainly that Dys was more shocked than she was hurt. 

"If you're going to lie, think very, very carefully about it," Snipe warned. "Let's try again. What is the symbol marking the Tarkanan caches?"

This time, Ven could see the panic set in to Dys's eyes. She looked up, then left, then down, seemingly tring to construct something, anything. Snipe raised his hand again. 

"It's a red splotch of paint," she stuttered out before he could move further. Her shoulders sagged. 

"So here's the deal, Dysentra," Snipe said. "We're going to take you to the lower city, and set you free. You're going to go to one of your Tarkanan hidey-holes, and you're gonna leave a message for your superiors from us. We're going to follow you, and we're going to make sure you actually leave the message. We're goint to make sure that the symbol on that cache is exactly what you've said here. If it doesn't match, it's sleepy time for you, and we end up right back here again. And none of us want that.

"We won't follow you after the drop," he continued. "You simply walk away. You may not trust us on that, but surely you trust yourself to lose us even if we did, knowing exactly what we look like, right?"

They all watched as Dys weighed it in her head. 

"All we're asking is for you to deliver our message," Snipe pushed. "How bad could that be?"

Dysentra sighed. 

"Fine," she said. "You all are the weirdest mercenaries I've ever seen." 

Snipe rolled his eyes as Brim looked immediately offended. He turned to Ven. 

"Care to spare us the insults?" 

Ven stood, completing the sleep sigil, and blew through her fingers, the mist surrounding Dystentra's head. 

"Really?" she said, slightly slurred and muffled through the mist. "I really don't think it's necces---" 

The four looked at each other. 

"I think that went well!" Jab said, bounding over to the kitchen. "Now who wants to try my attempt at dinner?"
