# Chapter 14 


Morning came all too quickly. Snipe was still sore from the chase the day before, not to mention the lightning strikes he bore, and it was frustratingly challenging to rest with a Tarkanan agent bound in their living room. He kept waking up and checking, execting to see the figure looming over his bed with daggers raised. 

He had to keep reminding himself that Jab, in another feat of his engineering, didn't actually *need* sleep. He needed to rest, but had offered to post up in the living room watching their prisoner throughout the night for any signs of an escape attempt.

He still had reservations about their plans. Dysentra was, if nothing else, some form of leverage, and he hated giving her up without more certainty that she wasn't leading them into a trap, or simply a random alley. He had to hope that his forcing of the symbol first meant that if she was lying, she wouldn't be able to even *find* a spot "marked by a red splotch of paint." At leas then they could knock her out again and try something else. 

*That spell sure is useful*, he mused, feeling a pang of envy at Ven's ability. He normally had no interest in magic --- he'd always seen it as a fickle art, and he'd take a dagger and rapier in hand for a fight over trusting he could somehow draw the right energy from the weave in a split second. But he had to admit... sending a target to sleep would be *extremely* useful in his line of work. 

The thought gave him pause. He hadn't even been to the Deathsgate guildhouse since arriving back in the city. He was owed payment for a job. 

*Yeah, like two-hundred galifars,* he thought, then immediately chided himself. Gold was gold. 

Dysentra, who they had un-blindfolded once they were far enough from the apartment, was leading them through the *Precarious* district of Lower Dura. She was about a block ahead, but to her credit, seemed to be holding true to her word to not bolt. 

On all sides, massive warehouses loomed, the arched ceilings of the tower's center high above. Lower Dura was the district adjacent to the massive lifts which brought goods up the cliffside from the Dagger River hundreds of feet below, and was the primary waystation for those goods before they made their way into the city.

Dys, however, soon cut inward away from the district's edge, leading inward toward the set of bridges that connected Lower Dura to the rest of the city. 

*Callestan*, Snipe shivered. He'd heard the stories about Callestan. A forlorn district, half rubble, torn to shreds by turf wars between the Boromar Clan and the Daask. Sharn's tawdiest stores, seediest brothels, and most questionable taverns could be found here. 

At this time of the midmorning --- though it was hard to know the time given the district's location deep within the Dura tower --- Callestan was quiet. The group passed several individuals passed out at the edges of the street, one even hung out a tavern window.

*Sleeping, or dead?* Snipe thought. It was hard to tell. 

He perked up as he caught a subtle hand sign from Dys up ahead. He motioned the group, and they slowed. Slipping forward, he watched as Dys turned into a side alley. Keeping to the opposite side of the street, Snipe stole ahead, pretending to walk past, but glanced into the alley long enough to see the half-orc pull a brick from the wall, slip their note in, and place it back in. 

She spared him one last withering glance from the alley, then faded down it, into the darkness. 

Snipe took a lingering, roundabout path toward the alley, slipping between the crowds that passed through the streets, before stepping carefully into the alley. He hadn't noticed anyone watching him, but you could never be too sure. 

Peering across the bricks of the wall, he confirmed the symbol on the brick was indeed three small red spots, easily missed as a stray splatter of paint. 

Returning to the group, he whispered,

"Seems she wasn't lying. She put the note behind a false brick in the alley wall, and the symbol was as she described."

"So... now what?" Brim asked, glancing about their decrepit surroundings. 

"Unfortunately," Snipe said, "I think now we wait. There's a tavern across the street from the alley. I suggest we hole up there by a window and hope someone comes to collect this note."

"Are we... you know, safe here?" Ven asked. 

Snipe shrugged. 

"As safe as we could be in Callestan," he replied. "I think we're relatively safe if we stick together as a group, and at this time of morning, everyone's sleeping off the night."

----- 

It was the the single dirtiest room Brim had ever seen. A layer of dark grime, speckled with some type of soot, coated everything --- which wasn't much. The tavern, if you could call it that, was about ten feet wide, extending back into the building around forty feet.

Five of that ten-foot width was taken up by the bar stretching down the righthand side, which seemed to be formed of multiple panels of driftwood nailed together. There were no chairs along the bar --- there wasn't room for any --- but at the very front, three small tables had been shoved into the corner. 

There didn't appear to be a tavern keeper, nor, at the moment, any other patrons, save an individual crumpled against the back wall. As Ven, cringing, took a seat at the small table, Brim walked up to bar and jumped back as a figure popped up in front of her. 

The halfling was bald, with a cutoff vest and leather pants, and had strange, twisting tattoos running up both arms. He eyed her suspiciously. 

"You ain't from here," he said curtly, his lower city drawl somehow clipped yet drawn out simultaneously. "Locals only establishment." 

Brim felt her face turn purple and nearly turned to direct her friends out, but then felt Jab step up to the bar next to her. 

"Now, good sir," he said in his metallic lilt. "You don't seem to have a lot of customers at this time, vying for space. Surely you'd take the sovereigns of a few weary travellers?" 

The halfling turned his peircing gaze on Jab, staring him down for a few seconds. Jab's face, as usual, bore no response. 

"Thrice dammned," the halfling said finally. "Guess you gotta point. Never did trust you rusties though. I don't trust a man I can't get drunk with. That's when a man shows their true colors."

*Rusties?* Brim thought. *Are there pejorative terms for warforged*?

Jab, meanwhile, set his elbows upon the bar --- then, testing his weight and seeming unconvinced at the structure's stability, lifted them back up. 

"Did it ever occur to you," Jab paused dramatically, and the halfling finally grunted and said, 

"...Lotar."

"Did it ever occur to you, Lotar, that we warforged wish we could eat and drink like you fleshy races? It's awfully boring to sit in taverns and restaurants and walk past street carts and never get to partake. But I promise to show you the real me anyway!"

Lotar squinted, twisting his mouth around as he thought. 

"Hehm," he said gruffly, though his face has softened. "Never thought of it that way. Fine. You're all welcome. Though I still don't like mosta you, on accounting mosta you not having your well-displayed charm."

"How many other warforged *do* come in here?" Jab asked with seemingly genuine curiosity. 

"Erhm, well, guess you'd be the first." 

Jab, seemingly content he'd nailed the argument, sauntered back to their tiny table and joined the others. 

Brim got their drinks --- "I got cheap shit, and cheap swill," Lotar panned --- and returned as well. 

"Where did you get so good at talking to people?" Brim asked in awe as she sat back down. "I thought that man was going to kick us out..."

"He could hardly kick us out," Snipe broke in. "He's about the size of your calf, Brim." 

Ven rolled her eyes.

"Did you see those tattoos, Snipe? We're one-hundred percent in a Boromar den right now. There's fifty more where Lotar came from hiding in the shadows, and they've all got clubs and machetes."

"Well," said Jab, ignoring the interruptions, "As you all know, I'm kind of on a mission. There's these Mothers, see, and they're trying to help us warforged --- the ones in House Geneo --- unlock the secrets of heredity. But they, well, I guess we, need more of us in the house first?"

He seemed to stumble over his thoughts momentarily, before continuing, 

"Anyways, they gave me the literature I've shown you all," --- he held up a pamphlet from his pack --- "and some of the others in House Geneo taught me a bit about how to bring others in!" 

The three sat a bit awkwardly. They'd not quite faced the cult-y --- or at least, questionable --- structure of Jab's community since he first met them aboard the *Morning Zephyr*. 

After a quiet pause, Brim ventured, 

"So, how many warforged have you gotten to sign up for House Geneo?" 

Jab slinked sheepishly in his chair. 

"Technically... none," he began, "Though, I mean, I was coming to Sharn for that purpose and we've all been a bit occupied since getting here..."

As the rest nodded reassuringly, he perked up suddenly.

"Oh and wait! I have one partial convert! I didn't even tell you. I met a warforged named Lock down in the Terminus district the morning I went out. He uh, well, actually, he needs our help tracking down his friend Sabre...." 

"Wait, what?" said Ven. 

"Well, it's just that I could feel Lock wanted to join, but he was worried about his friend," Jab said. "Sabre was supposed to meet Lock when Lock arrived in the city, but he never showed. I asked around a bit and didn't learn anything about Sabre, but I did hear from a couple of people in the district that there were rumors spreading about warforged not showing up for their warehouse shifts, and going missing entirely..." 

"That's horrible!" Brim said. 

"Yeah, agreed," Ven added, "but wait, did you say you offered our help tracking this Sabre down??" 

Jab looked around defensively.

"No! I mean, not exactly... I just, well, I said that I *might* be able to help, and at the time I thought that maybe it was connected somehow to what we're looking into, or maybe we'd be investigating in the same areas anyways."

"I mean, if something is happening to all the warforged, I think we should help Jab look into it," Brim said. "Maybe after dealing with this dragonseye thing, though..." 

Ven nodded. "Speaking of..." 

Brim jumped, realizing their conversation had distracted her from their task of watching the alley. 

"Don't worry..." Snipe said quietly, having sat mostly in silence with his head tilted over toward the window. "No one's come by yet."

Heads now centered on the task at hand, the group settled in to watch. 

An hour went by. Then two. By the third, Brim had grown sleepy, and had to down another burning, bitter drink to keep herself awake. By the fourth, the streets had filled out, and Lotar's tavern had begun filling up as well. 

She soon found herself drawn to the conversations of the incoming patrons, most of whom carried the same grime as the establishment. They all had a nervous energy about them, and many carried copies of the Sharn Inquisitor, which appeared to be one of the city's newspapers. Some also clutched what appeared to be some type of red flyer.

Brim snagged a dropped or abandoned copy of the newspaper off the ground and began to read. 

"Wow, uh, guys, you should listen to this," she said. "It says that more than three hundred people at the Diamond theater manifested aberrant dragonmarks after the attack. Lots of people were injured or knocked unconscious... three died, but they were sick or elderly, it says. But that's not the thing. Here," she pointed to the second heading on the first page.

"'House Tarkanan takes responsibility for the attacks,'" she read aloud. "'Further stoking the incendiary flames, thousands of flyers rained down into the lower city over night, with an open call from Tarkanan.' ... It says the flyers are offering people the *opportunity* to come be converted, to get a dragonmark like those at the theater. They say Tarkanan will teach people how to use their marks, and stop letting the wealthy elite of the upper city push them around..." 

She looked up, to see Ven pale as a ghost across the table. Snipe stroked his chin appreciatively and let out a low whistle.

"So diamond wasn't an attack, *per se*," he said. "It was... more of an advertisement. Proof that they could do it, proof that couldn't be covered up by the Sharn Watch..." 

"Why would anyone *want* an abberant dragonmark," Ven whispered, aghast. "Don't they know about the War of the Mark? About how dangerous aberrant marks are?" 

Jab leaned in even closer. 

"I mean, they haven't hurt *us* yet," he began, but the panicked widening of Ven's eyes shut him up. 

Snipe shook his head. 

"I think people know that dragonmarks, whatever the kind, represent power," he said. "Sure, those with aberrant marks have been persecuted against. But that's in part because there's so few of them. Maybe these Tarkanan people think that if enough people show up and manifest these marks, they'll have to be reckoned with as equals..."

"Yeah," Ven said, hollow, "Especially since aberrant marks often come with horrific, twisted powers." 

Brim frowned. Ven seemed to have very strong opinions about aberrant marks, but Brim had never felt her mark's power infecting her thoughts, or representing anything "twisted and horrific." In fact, the only thing she'd really used it to do so far was repair an arcane engine. *And Onatar wouldn't give you the choice to take on something evil, right?* She felt sure he wouldn't. 

As Brim looked up and around, seeking a copy of the red flyer to peruse, she noticed that the bar had grown packed with workers, all throwing back drinks and discussing the same topics as their table, albeit in drunk, loud, animated fashion. 

"Exactly!" yelled a warehouse worker. "There aint been a population of aberrant bearers in a thousand years. I bet they only call `em that to make `em sound scary! They just wanna keep the power from us!"

"Sure!" said another, pointing an accusing finger upward, "but you can bet your ass to Khyber that if we show up for this `conversion,' the Sharn Watch will be there to round us up and throw us in prison for a week before we ever get a taste of a dragonmark."

That sent a murmer of agreement through the crowd, but the first worker wasn't backing down. 

"Look outside! There's already hundreds of people marching to the warehouses! The Watch may mobilize, they may try to shut us down, but they can't round up every soul in the lower city! Our safety is in numbers!" 

This also generated a chorus of agreement from part of the room, and as Brim glanced back out through the grimy window, she could see that, indeed, waves of people, all clutching flyers, were now rolling past with regularity. A flyer finally availed itself to her, fluttering from the open doorway to the floor near her feet. 

"I know we're on stakeout," she said, examining the flyer. "But it's been a few hours and I don't think anyone's coming to get our note. But if Tarkanan is promising to convert people tonight," she continued, holding it up to her friends, "then they have to have the dragonseye there, right?" 

Snipe nodded. 

"I agree, it's time to bail, Lotar's magnanimous hosting aside. Finding the warehouse where they're pulling off this event is our best bet." 

"That might not be so easy," Ven said uneasily. "The flyer doesn't say which warehouse, just to head to the *Precarious* district." 

"Makes sense though, right?" Jab said. "If they dropped these overnight, the Sharn Watch could set up at any warehouse. But they can't lock down the entire district. We'll just have to follow the crowds. They must be passing information *somehow*."

Brim nodded. 

"Okay, let's go then," she said. "The crowds look like they're getting bigger and bigger. We probably want to get there as soon as we can to have time to scout." 

The group stood, their half collapsed table immediately seized upon by two separate groups of dockworkers who immediately set to throwing fists over it, and stepped out into the street. 

"Wait," Snipe said, holding up a hand. "I have to check one thing, for my own sanity."

Brim watched as he darted across the street into the alley, removed the brick, cursed, and returned to the group with it. 

"I'm such an *idiot*," he said. "Our message *was* delivered. Look."

He pointed to the interior of the false brick, which was devoid of their note. On the back wall of the inside, glowing slightly, was a clearly arcane rune. 

"They must be rigged to somehow transfer the information as soon as it's placed inside," Snipe said, groaning. "Dys played us for fools."

Jab chuckled. "It's a good thing we have a new lead then!" 

And with that, the four melted into the tumultuous crowd, letting themselves be carried toward *Precarious*.