# Chapter 15

## Four Years Ago

With an understated flourish, Aaren d'Cannith removed the rag of polish from the hardened metal surface, inspected it closely, and retrieved a screwdriver to tighten a few errant bolts and screws. From within a few joints in the surface, a light blue glow emanated from within the interior of the machine. 

“There, good as new,” he said, patting the thing with some fondness. 

Of course, this was far from the truth. *New* was before the war. *New* was a much younger, less weary Aaren, fervent with purpose in the forging of an instrument of destruction. *New* was a new type of being, neither creature nor machine — a construct, but imbued with enough consciousness to serve without direct control. Expendable, powerful, and most importantly, enslaved. A soldier. 

New was having purpose, and now, this thing had none. This did not particularly occur to Aaren, who had never quite arrived at a strong conclusion about the thing’s consciousness to begin with. Perhaps it was because he created it of his own hand, but he never really saw it as a separate entity from himself. 

Of course, the thing on the table before him had so many new parts --- not to mention the odd upgrade --- that Aaren could scarcely name a component within it that remained from the previous build.

*Perhaps it’s  for the better,* he thought, considering the machine’s longevity. He did not stop to think whether swapping every interior part in this being might affect its mental state upon waking up. 

In any case, he had no intentions of ever waking it up. Since the passing of the treaty, the thing would be free as soon as he awoke it, and that served him no purpose at all. Parts were expensive, and he had little use of his walking out the front door. 

With movements that belied his considerable age, he drifted to a second workbench in his laboratory. He sat down and swept his gaze across the series of faceplates and metallic heads that stared back at him with lifeless eyes from their perches. 

“Now, which of you would serve dear Boranel well in the coming war?” he asked, lightly rolling his eyes at his own cynicism. True, peace currently held in these lands, but he had no doubt that the legions of freed warforged roaming Eberron would be conscripted back into combat the moment it all went aflame. 

He selected one of the heads, clearly more finely crafted than the others — perhaps a sign of his softening heart. Its backing was gold, with thin strips of white metal extending down the back. The faceplate itself, rather than the standard metal plate with “eye” slits and a perfunctory mouth slit, appeared to be smooth and black, like obsidian. Aaren reached out to a small arcane device sitting on the table, pulling the cube-shaped ember into his hand. Turning the headpiece to peer up inside, he slotted the ember into place with a satisfying click. 

At this, the head began to whir slightly, and turning it back to the front, Aaren watched as a small series of bulbs lining the inside of the black plate lit up one by one, then all together, and finally, began to trace out intricate moving shapes and designs. A small tear threatened to drip from his eye at the sight — this was one of his finest accomplishments — but it never quite breached his eye. 

Instead, he carried the head back over to the splayed robotic body laying on the workbench behind him. As he held the head above the neck region of the thing, he felt a tug and let go with satisfaction, watching the magnetic couplings capture the head and hold it in place a few inches above the body.  

He took a moment to examine the body, ignoring slightly the creeping feeling that, now that it had a head on it, and for all its robotic nature, it now seemed to resemble a corpse.

It was in part due to the shabbyness of his laboratory. Once, Aaren d'Cannith commanded the most advanced creation forges in Cyre, bustling workshops with hundreds of workers and a near infinite set of material to work with. And at their beating heart, the forges themselves, from which new life emerged. Where in his old lab, his creation would stand tall, supported by reinforced strutted stands, here it lay unceremoniously across the bench. 

In some ways, what laid before him now was ugly — particularly by an artificer’s standards. A hodgepodge of different metallic hues, some owing to the natural color of the metal, others to the magically imbued color that had once graced the machine or building that hosted it, the revitalized warforged on the table before him seemed a mess of contradictions.

Its breastplate was a curved piece of red, while strips of blue, gold, copper, and even a strip of malleable wood here and there snaked outward, fitting together like pieces of a macabre, nonsensical puzzle. 

Aaren’s memory flashed back to the gleaming, all-silver construct he had delivered those years ago, and he sighed. 

*Perhaps,* he thought, *this thing was a better representation of the times. Functional, but broken nonetheless.* Or if not broken, incomplete, incoherent. Aimless, like him.

It had been more than thirty years since Aaren d'Cannith's epiphany --- the breakthrough that led to the sentience of the warforged. It was now nearing twenty years since he abdicated his position in the house, abandoned his Cannith names and holdings, and retreated to a lonely, abandonded tower in the Aundairian countryside. 

Aaren then reached into a drawer, stopping a moment to really observe the wrinkles beginning to snake across the top of his hands. Age had done nothing to reduce his dexterity with machines, or to strip away his gifts. But perhaps in part due to that, his general physical frailty now often surprised him.

Shrugging the feeling off, he pulled out a considerably hefty diamond. It was sharply and finely cut, but not to the specifications of any piece of recognizable jewelry. The stone itself represented most of Aaren’s remaining wealth, and, after a few moments of weighing it in his hand, the elf carefully leaned over the construct on the table and, with ginger fingers, dropped it into a cavity in the center of the thing’s chest. 

As it locked into place, beams of blue light began refracting through it, as physical attachments extended out from the interior mechanical workings to better secure it in its housing. 

He  stood, placing another light hand on the construct’s shoulder.

*Never wake, my friend,* he thought. *Your creation was an exercise in futility — both times, really — but I am one of a great many flaws, and I’m rather afraid that in my old age, few of my virtues can withstand the vice of my vanity. I only regret forcing my own cornerstone upon you. Alas.* 

Aaren turned, briefly eyeing the large smithing hammer hanging from a neighboring table, before walking to the edge of the workshop. Ducking through a small archway, he emerged onto a balcony overlooking the soft rolling hills of the countryside. He took an uncertain step onto the ledge, glancing at the stone patio at the bottom of the tower. 

He closed his eyes, considering his life a final time. He stepped a foot out over the edge. 

"Now, Uncle," came a cold voice from over his shoulder. "Let's not be rash." 

Aaren felt a tug at his skin, knowing it to be the workings of an arcane hold on him, keeping him fixed in place. He turned his head, and with resignation, saw Merrix d'Cannith stepping out from the shadows of his workshop. 

"We still have work to do," Merrix said, holding out a hand. 