# Chapter 16

Precarious at night was even more foreboding than in the daytime, when at least some light from the tower's edges filtered into the cavernous space 

Now, the glow of the everlight lanterns adorning the warehouses faded up into inky blackness above, the high arched yieldings no longer visible. It was a void like the deepest night, with no stars for comfort or guidance. 

Ven shivered. She could *feel* the layer of grime on her skin as it adopted the grime and soot the lower city's air carried, brought up from the cogs below and with nowhere, really, to go.

She hated everything about what was happening, what they were about to attempt to do. She laughed, briefly, at the irony. She'd run away from Sharn to find her freedom, the autonomy to follow the path *she* wished. And yet, time after the time, the universe had shoved circumstances upon her she could no more easily escape than her family's drama. First, the Mourning had changed her life forever. Had nearly ended it, and in some ways, had succeeded. Then, as if she hadn't suffered enough, an unasked for, unwanted dragonmark on her skin. 

*And now I'm traipsing through Lower Dura in a crowd of frenzied dockworkers seeking unknown powers,* she thought. For all she knew, that would be followed immediately by riots as they brought that power to bear against their oppressors in the upper city. 

She grimaced. *Which is me, technically*.

As Ven and her companions filtered through the ever-growing crowd, she began to grow nervous that they'd never be able to find the actual warehouse Tarkanan would be at. As they neared the center of Precarious, she could feel the nerves in the crowd, as the momentum sputtered and people began loudly questioning where to go next. 

She heard Jab trying in vain to ask passersby about the missing warforged. A few gave quick, vague answers, but clearly everyone's minds were elsewhere. She exchanged a nervous look with Snipe. *Now what?*

Her question was answered when a halfling pushed his way through them, grunting and heaving with the exertion of parting the crowd of much larger individuals. 

"Will---you---let---me---through!?" he exclaimed, throwing an elbow into Brim's calf but finding himself wedged between her and a burly orcish dockworker next to her. Brim looked down in surprise at the figure.

"Do you ah, need some help?" Brim asked, reaching down a hand. "I could lift you up and over." The halfling, who bore a long, twisting scar from the top of his forehead down to his neck, pouted and attempted to cross his arms, but couldn't finish the gesture, stuck as he was. He yelped as another body pressing in caught the hair of his pulled-back ponytail. 

"Fine!" he conceded, wrenching one arm free and sending it up to meet Brim's. Her hand could fit around the entirety of his hand and wrist. Ven watched in slight amusement as Brim slowly yanked him free over his protestations of pain. She seemed unsure of what to do next. 

"On your shoulder," he said with a dramatic sigh. "Khyber below, this crowd is a nightmare." 

Brim put out an arm for balance as the halfling perched on one shoulder, foot tucked in the crook of her elbow. 

"Sovereigns, I can see so much fucking better up here," he continued. "You tree-built really have it good. Alright. That way!" He pointed through the crowd toward the direction of the cliffs. 

"You know where to go?" Brim asked, glancing up at him. "I'm Brim, by the way. These are my friends." 

The halfling peered down at the rest of them with suspicion. 

"Garmaiel. You're not from the lower city, clearly. What brings you to this obviously revolutionary march?" Leaning down to speak more conspiratorially, he said "I do know where to go. Word's been spreading slowly but surely. There's six warehouses tonight. No one knows which they'll actually be at, but I know where the options are. We have to take our chances at one." 

*That's not great,* Ven thought. *One and six chance. Just like a gambling die.* She saw Snipe throw her another look, before he looked up at Garmaiel and asked,

"How close together are the six?" 

"The warehouses? They're close, walk-able, but not so close the Watch could watch two at once," Garmaiel responded. 

Snipe glanced at her again. *Ah,* she thought. *If we can get close enough, maybe we'll sense it again.*

The thought sent a shudder through her. Annoyed with herself as she was for not noticing the dull sense of foreboding in the back of her mind and the high pitched, barely discernible whine at the theater that had broadcast the dragonseye's presence, she realized she had no desire to hear it again. It felt... wrong, somehow. 

They continued shuffling forward with the crowd until it finally started to thin out, with other gaggles of workers looking around in confusion for more instruction. As they neared the edge of a small square, a few alleys looked blessedly empty, and they darted within. Garmaiel jumped down off Brim's shoulder with obvious relief.  

Under Garmaiel's instruction, they navigated the maze-like corridors and back alleys until they reached another thoroughfare --- this one ran parallel to the cliff, where the massive elevator docks currently sat dormant.

They once again joined the rolling masses of people, though now, Garmiael assured, significantly closer to their destination. The crowd here was less oppressive, the feeling aided by being out in the open air again. Many around them also seemed more sure-footed, walking with purpose.

*Others with inside information,* Ven thought. She hoped the halfling's intel was accurate, but had to admit they had nothing better to go on. Trying to tune out the noise of the crowd, Ven tried to focus and see if she could sense anything from the device. It was hard to tell.

A few minutes later, they arrived at what must've been the first of the warehouses. A fraction of the crowd was peeling off, flowing into open double doors at the side of the building. Others continued on, resolute in their knowledge this was not the right building. Others still seemed unsure, looking to make their gamble. 

Ven shot looks at Snipe, Brim, and Jab, as they all concentrated on the feeling of the device. She shook her head. They responded in kind. As they continued, Garmaiel perked up. 

"Oh, so you do have some information of your own," he crowed. "Guess we can be useful to each other after all." 

Ven grimaced. 

"I think we've helped each other plenty already, wouldn't you say?" she asked, fervently hoping Garmaiel got the message. They didn't need to be worried about him in all this. And Ven would much rather him end up at one of the dummy warehouses, where he'd be spared the conversion. 

*He's making his own choice,* a small part of her thought sharply. *It's not like your own choices have led anywhere but pain. You'd still want the right to make them.*

Ven frowned. Where had that thought come from? It was unambiguously her own thought, yet... something felt alien about it. She shrugged it off, the unease remaining. 

Suddenly, she felt it. The whine. And, she realized, a draw, tugging her, whispering to come closer. Like to like. A quick glance at Snipe and Jab confirmed it. They were close. 

As they approached the next of the warehouses that had activity surrounding it, she reached down and tapped Garmaiel on the shoulder. 

"I think this is where our journey together ends," she said. "Good luck." 

Garmaiel squinted at them, seeming to determine if they were bluffing, or double bluffing him. After a long moment, he shrugged, and followed the crowd into the building. 

"His life's going to be really different tomorrow," Ven said quietly. 

"Not if we stop this," Brim said, laying a hand on her shoulder. Ven nodded, steeling herself.  

"I'm guessing we shouldn't go in the front," Snipe mused. "We'll just be stuck in the crowd waiting with everyone else to get blasted." 

"Back door?" Jab asked. Snipe shrugged. "Worth a shot. Bet there'll be Tarkanan back there though..." 

Ven swallowed. They stepped into an alley one warehouse over and wrapped around to the back of Warehouse 65B-41L Cliffside, Precarious. They found a locked, unguarded door. Cracking a knuckle, Snipe knelt down and began to pick, as the whine in their minds grew louder, and the faintest sheen of red colored their vision.