# Chapter 17 


Jab could hear the rumble of the crowd through the walls. Excitement, nervousness. Skepticism, anger. He wasn't fully familiar with everything in the stew of emotions the fleshy races were exuding in this space, but he let them wash over him nonetheless. There was something so alive about it. 

He knew he was alive, of course. But as he came to know Brim, Snipe, and Ven, he realized that his thoughts were... not lesser, but simpler. No, that wasn't right either. He was capable of equally, if not more, complex thought. Rational thought. 

*That's the difference,* he thought. His thoughts may be similar in many ways to his companions, but they were nearly always rational. Cause and effect. If this, then that. He wasn't always *correct* about his assessments of the world --- but that was because, he realized, the world didn't often actually *make sense*. 

Take Ven. The woman was a walking *mess* of contradictions, hating her house and family yet seeming to care deeply for the silver haired Lyrandar woman who'd brought wine to their apartment. She knew, and opposed, the propaganda the Dragonmarked houses supposedly trafficked in... but her negative reaction to aberrant dragonmarks seemed deeply rooted in House dogma. *He* certainly didn't feel that way. The mark was a gift, and a tool. It hurt, sometimes, but so did everything in life. And he knew Brim and Snipe didn't seem to harbor quite the same negative feelings about it. 

*And clearly, neither does anyone in this warehouse*, he thought, trying to return to the task at hand. 

But the thought dogged him. He'd desired, since he found the Mothers, to obtain whatever it was these people had that warforged didn't --- The ability to reproduce, to not be *created* by someone's hand. But that was still kind of abstract. Jab realized that, at a functional level, he felt himself made othered from his friends in part *because* they made no sense. They were messy, complicated people, and Jab felt simple by comparison. 

To be fair, he was young, even by warforged standards. The oldest of his race were, as far as anyone could tell officially, roughly thirty-two years in age. The majority were closer to ten. Jab was... less than that. 

He didn't remember his creation, nor "coming online," as others called it. He'd learned later that warforged were created with fully mature processing and temperament --- they could learn and change during their lives, but they didn't have a childhood. Apparently, early testing showed that having a fully conscious being pop into existence fully formed led rather quickly to some form of insanity. Documentation was scarce; most of it was lost in the Mourning. 

And so, warforged were created in a form of "half-stasis," during which some of their processing was limited, and none of their experiences were recorded in their memories. Slowly, both features increased in strength up until Jab was much as he found himself today. If he peered back through his memory, everything eventually became lost in a fuzzy fog. 

Jab snapped back into reality at the sound of a satisfying click, as Snipe slid the final lock tumbler into place and slowly pushed the heavyset door inward. He crouched next to Snipe. 

"What's the plan?" he whispered. 

"I love that you see me as some type of roguish fiend with `plans', Jab." Snipe laughed. "Deathsgate members... we usually just stumble into the sites of our contracts and shoot stuff that's shooting at us until nothing is shooting anymore."

Jab heard Ven snort from behind him. She'd make a good spy too, he figured. He could never tell what was going on in that head of hers. 

"Alright," he said, steadying his spear. "I'll stab anything that comes for me and go from there."

"Don't you mean `jab' anything?" Brim ask, stifling her own giggle. 

*What was it about abject danger that made people so giggly?* he thought. He didn't have time to consider it too deeply. It was time to move. 

Slipping into the slight gap left by the ajar door, Jab crouched in the darkness of the room. 

*You really would've thought constructed soldiers would've been given some capacity to see in the dark,* he thought bitterly. He envisioned Merrix's face before him, then scrunched his face in annoyance at it. His real face plates, of course, didn't budge. 

The darkened hallway was devoid of light, but not of sound, which Jab was much more adept at discerning. He pressed a hand to the ground and let the subtle vibrations supplant the sound waves that reached his sonic pick-ups. 

"The Mistress will be arriving shortly," came a scratchy voice from around the corner. "It's time to take our places." 
Jab turned and gestured to his friends, who'd just finished slipping through the door. Snipe eased it closed, as they all pressed themselves into the nooks of the bare stone construction. 

Moments later, a single torchlight emerged around the corner, illuminating a pockmarked face and wild, scraggly hair. The glowing red eyes gave them away as Tarkanan. 

As Jab considered a course of action, two things happened simultaneously. The figure froze in place, as if bound by ropes. Jab glanced over to see Ven's somatic gestures. Looking back at the sentry, he saw a bolt shoot down the hallway and cleanly pierce the man's neck. He sagged into the invisible hold upon him, and Ven released it shortly thereafter, leaving the body to thump to the floor. 

"Was that necessary!?" Ven whispered furiously at Snipe. "I had him held!"

"That doesn't always work," he whispered back nonchalantly. "And in my experience, they can still grunt pretty loudly in that condition." 

Ven looked about ready to slap him, but Brim put a hand to her shoulder. 

"I don't want to hurt anyone either," she murmured. "But these Tarkanan folks have been trying to hurt us since we met them. We have a task. I don't think now's the moment to heavily weigh collateral." 

Ven stood for a moment, breathing heavily, then her shoulders dropped in resignation. 

"Fine. Let's go," she said. "But Sovereigns above, let's not leave bodies in our wake we don't absolutely have to." 

As they walked forward, Jab turned and saw her stop to briefly test a pulse on the figure's neck. Grimacing, she stood and joined the rest of them as they rounded the corner.

Ahead they faced a long passage, which seemed to trace the length of the long warehouse. Jab felt his vision adjusting. About 50 feet ahead, two points of light --- torches --- illuminated the otherwise darkened hallway, and two Tarkanan enforcers lounged leaning against the walls, chatting. 

As Snipe moved to raise his crossbow and Ven moved to stop him, Jab felt a vibration through his feet. Voices, more distinct than the rumble of the crowd through the wall, and... below them? 

He held up two arms to stop both his companions, and gestured down through the floor at an angle. After a moment, he heard Ven whisper

"Under the floor? Just like at the theater." 

He nodded, then inched forward, feeling along the wall for loose stones or hidden catches that might open a passage downward. Around him, Ven and Snipe did the same on the floor and opposite wall, while Brim, amusingly, seemed to be feeling along the ceiling. 

Snipe found it, thankfully after only around 25 feet of inching forward; any more and they'd risk easy spotting by the guards ahead. As Snipe pulled a switch built into an unlit sconce, Jab watched as the wall to their left slid inwards and to the left. 
The sound of scraping stone immediately drew the attention of the guards. 

"They here already?" one asked the other, suspicious, as Jab willed the stone to move faster. "Thought it'd be a little longer," the other replied. They both turned down the hall just as Jab followed the rest of the party into the passage. 

"Please tell me there's a way to close it," he whispered. 

Snipe grunted.

"Always easier on this side," he said, yanking a large lever in the wall to which Jab's eyes hadn't even yet grown accustomed enough to see.

The false stone of the wall slid shut behind them just as the footsteps of the questioning enforcers approached. 

"You'd think they'd at least grace us with a hello," one said, dejectedly. "I'd been hoping to meet the Mistress tonight."

"In time," said the other, now muffled through several inches of wood and stone. "Working a job like this well, you're sure to be raised up soon." 

Jab turned to see most of his group had crept down the staircase. He hustled down to catch up, and joined them as they emerged into a roughly four foot high crawlspace between the warehouse floor. 

He wondered what use such a space would serve. As they crouched over and began to edge forward in the pitch darkness, he felt the whine growing stronger in his head. None of them had mentioned it aloud yet, but the pull toward the device was nearly second nature. 

He was surprised to find that the floor beneath his feet was angled. Not strongly, but at least several degrees. That was when he connected his surroundings with the vaguely fishy smell that pervaded his senses. Smell was also not one of his strongest suits. 

He heard a noise from Ven next to him that sounded vaguely like a gag. 

*Okay, very fishy, then* he thought. The crawlspace began to make some sense. *This warehouse handles fish from the river,* he thought. *They bring pallets or nets up but this space lets the water drain back out towards the cliffs.*

Jab's hearing, in contrast, was nearly overwhelmed by the sounds piercing straight down through the floorboards above. Feet stamped, voices grumbled. The whole floor above seemed about ready to collapse under the weight, wood beams groaning around him. 

Then everything went quiet. 

Jab stopped moving, as did his companions, feeling the prickling sensation of something changing. The crowd had stilled above. 

"Welcome, my dearest friends," rang a loud, clear voice, tinged with an accent Jab couldn't place. It was female, but low in timbre, with a rumble and gravitas he'd never heard. A low murmur passed through the crowd above. 

"I want to commend you all on your bravery this night. We offer you a great power, but also the trust that you will use this power to help make our city a more equitable, more welcoming place." 

Jab heard a swelling assent from the crowd. Next to him, Snipe and Ven began to creep forward again, toward the whine. Brim was on all fours, given the height of the space. 

"Sharn is *magnificent*," called the voice above, carving a melody into the air. "A true wonder of our world! But look no further than the War of the Mark to learn that some in power would see Sharn crumble before giving any rights to the disenfranchised!" 

At this, the floorboards above him erupted into pounding as the assembled workers whooped and stomped in agreement. 

"You have been led to fear aberrant dragonmarks. You've been told they are evil. You've heard stories long passed into myth of powerful mages exerting their will upon Khorvaire with aberrant power," the voice continued solemnly, as the pounding died down. 

"Yet do the Dragonmarked houses not wield their power to do the very same!?" the voice boomed, to thunderous assent. "Do they not feed us this fear to keep us docile? Keep us tending the docks, the warehouses, the brothels, and the taverns of the lower city upon which the wealth of the Skyway is built!?" 

Jab could barely hear his thoughts over the stomping of the floor above him. He realized the woman must be projecting with some sort of thaumaturgic spell to overpower those cheers. 

"Well I ask you now," she called, stoking the flames. "The Houses rose out of conformity, out of their marks behaving in lockstep with their goals, and their scions bowing to the wills of their elders," 

Jab glanced at Ven, but her face was shadowed in the darkness. 
"Do they not have far more to fear from us, from the masses armed not with docile, industrial marks, but marks of power?" Tarkanan continued. "Marks that were once hunted down because of their fear of us, and marks which, if united, could bring this city to its knees?" 

The crowd above seemed, to Jab's attestation, to be losing their minds. 

"You saw our proof at the Diamond Theatre," the voice called out, bringing the room above, somehow, to a whisper. "This is my aberrant power. To bring this choice to you all. The road ahead will be fraught with danger. But together, we can show the houses that we are not chattel to be smeared under their foot. 

"You all are the first, truly the first, to claim this power for yourselves *by choice*. And you need not even fight. Our numbers, which will soon swell and overflow from Lower Dura to Middle Central and beyond, will be enough to force the houses to recognize us as what we truly are: A powerful house in our own right." 

The voice paused for truly dramatic effect. 

"House Tarkanan," she roared, and the frenzied crowd fully lost all control of their senses. It sounded like a rampage was occuring above his head, but Jab knew it to be the stamping, jumping, and screaming of fervent support. 

"It is time, my loves," called the voice. "If you wish leave of this power, leave now. For in moments, we shall all be transformed together..." 

----- 

*Dolurrh!* Ven thought. *We're out of time!* 

As she crawl-hunched forward in the darkness, not daring to produce any light and drawn only by the tug in her chest that drove her forward, Ven felt a terrible unease at the words being broadcast above her head. 

Mistress Tarkanan was evil. That was an undisputable fact. 

Right?

Ven knew by now that Tarkanan's "house" was known as a terrorist organization not because of any ideals, but because they trained murderers and assassins and enforcers who were a danger to society. 

*And what jobs, honest jobs, would a spontaneous aberrant bearer be hired for?* she thought. She shook her head. Where *were* these thoughts coming from? 

*You don't think House Lyrandar --- all the houses --- didn't have good reason to paint abberants in a negative light?* she berated herself. *The houses wiped them out once. They'd do it again.* 

Ven nearly clawed at her own skull. *Now is not the time,* she thought, trying to corral what appeared to be warring factions in her brain. *Find the dragonseye.*

As if answering her prayer, she saw a flash of light up ahead. Instinctively, she and the others rushed forward, knowing precious little time was left to stop the device from activating. 

They stumbled over an unexpected edge, and fell into a storeroom that was carved down an addition ten or so feet into the stone. The room was littered with piled up crates and barrels, the floor a solid inch and a half of brine and water, and in its center, four individuals stood tall around a spherical metallic device. The whine in their heads was now more like a scream. Red tendrils were beginning to reach, tentatively, from out between the metal banding of the device.

The four Tarkanan agents looked up at the crash of their entry. Ven began to cast.