# Chapter 18 


Snipe dived behind cover, sliding his crossbow out from behind his back with precision. 

This was what he was good at. He liked his objectives simple, and ideally, within eyesight. Everything else could be dealt with.

As one of the Tarkanan agents waved and arm and tossed the crates serving as his cover to the side, he admitted he might have to revise that creed when magic users were involved. 

Nevertheless, the sudden lack of cover impelled him to fire, and he managed to lodge a crossbow bolt into the thigh of the evidently telekinetic agent. The half-elf had spindly, woven gray hair, and wore an obnoxious duster with a collar that rose to his ears.

Snipe leaped toward another set of barrels. *You'll have to hit him somewhere a bit more vital to stop him annihilating your cover,* he thought. 

He deftly reloaded his crossbow while also drawing a dagger from his belt for insurance. *This time, you won't know where I am,* he thought with a grim smile. 

Rather than popping up and attacking, he rolled to a separate stack of crates, hoping to earn himself a surprise appearance. As he reached forward to brace against the crates, he realized he couldn't see his own arm. 

-----

As Jab took note of his surroundings, he immediately realized something. There, just to the left of the dragonseye, eyeing him up, was a face he recognized. 

*I let you escape once,* Jab thought, immediately walking toward him, actuators whirring and hissing as his arms and legs prepared for combat. 

Sbar'n only smiled wickedly as he approached. 

-----

Ven eyed the device sitting on a small makeshift crate-table in the center of the circle of Tarkanan agents. 

*The device is the objective,* she thought to herself, trying to ignore the battle bursting out around her. Kneeling behind a stack of crates, she concentrated, reaching for the flaming energy that now burned at her core. Calling out, Ven summoned the energetic sprite of Cinder from whatever void she lived in within her, and the fox appeared in a burst of orange flame before here. 

*You've been awefully dismissive of my input lately,* she heard. No, she *thought*. 

*Wait,* she exclaimed, internally. *That's been you?*

The fox only yipped in annoyance, as if to say, *No time for this now, silly woman.* 

Ven shook her head. She might be going crazy, but her crazy intuition was right. She looked at the fox. 

"Think you can get to that metal sphere?" she asked.

----- 

*Onatar,* Brim prayed, as they arrayed out and immediately drew the arcane fire of the agents before them. *We're... the good guys, right?*

She'd been more affected by Mistress Tarkanan's speech than she'd have liked. She knew the woman was likely a practicated orator, but still... Brim had nothing against Ven as a person, but it certainly seemed like the Dragonmarked-House world she came from was responsible for a lot of pain. 

*Like running my family out of business*, she thought, suddenly remembering her whole purpose in this city. 

If Brim had learned anything since coming to Sharn, it was that there were twenty sides to every story. As she held up her shield and deflected a bolt of lightning that danced her way from one of the agents, she tried to push aside thoughts of which side was ultimately right, and focus on the moment at hand. 

Calling on Onatar's strength, Brim conjured a cleansing flame. *Good for clearing imperfections off a sword,* she thought. *Apparently also good against people,* she concluded, as the white flame shot forward and sent two of the agents diving behind cover. She hit the last square in the back, and as he was wreathed in light, he twisted around, and she saw his reddened eyes flare bright against it. 

----- 

*Use It...*

The whisper came to Snipe not verbally, but as a feeling, a yearning. He frowned, pausing as he reloaded his crossbow, hiding behind several barrels which were getting charred by return fire from the center of the room. 

*Use what?* he thought, as he peered around the cover to wait for Brim to let off another searing burst of radiant flame. She soon obliged, and Snipe took advantage of the distraction to loose another bolt into one of the agent's sides. No one seemed to track him. 

*Makes sense,* he thought in the part of his mind not dedicated to the flow of combat. *Somehow, I'm invisible*.

There was a buzzing about him, and energy he hadn't ever felt before, animating his movement, nudging him forward. The energy that spread across him from his mark. *Is it powering this invisibility?* he thought. *Doesn't seem to be draining me...*

Suddenly, he felt a pain flare in his side. He grunted, turning to see that one of the agents had managed to sneak around his cover and stab into him from the side with a thin sword. He watched in horror as he dissolved back into reality, starting from the wound and expanding outward, the invisibility lost. He could already feel the blood loss, the deliberating effect of shock setting in. 

*No you don't,* he growled, *that's my trick*. Focusing, he felt his muscles grow taught and begin expanding, the skin above them stretching and sprouting tufts of fur. The shift infused him with new energy, the pain in his side receded to a dull thump. He glanced down to see that the wound was still there, but the fur which has grown around it was aiding in staunching it, forming an ugly clot. 

*It'll do*, he thought, leaping forward and drawing his dagger and rapier. 

The figure before him was spindly and pale --- a strong contrast to the more sculpted visage of Sbar'n, who he could see from the corner of his eye trading blows with Jab. Sbar'n was stronger; Jab was faster. It seemed to be a fair enough fight. 

The man before Snipe --- *boy, really*, he thought, *Can't be more than 15 or 16* --- wore ragged robes and had a snaking tattoo which zig-zagged across his face, emanating from the temples and spreading around the eyes. 

Snipe's first strike with the rapier missed, but as the boy countered, he learned a valuable insight into his opponent; the boy had seized the opportunity provided by Snipe's strike to attack his weak side. Snipe easily parried it off the hilt of his dagger. 

*He telegraphs his moves; must not have fought many dual wielders,* Snipe thought. He jumped back and circled around, trying to put his back to the wall so he could also see the rest of the fight unfolding. It was time for his trick. 

Snipe smiled wide at the boy, his toothy grin accentuated by the sharper teeth that accentuated his shifted form. He saw a flit of fear pass over the boy's smouldering eyes. *A fight is truly a mental battle,* he thought. *Once I'm in his head, it's over.*

He felt the tug, the urge again. *Use it...* 

Snipe squinted, trying not to let his focus lapse as he parried off another probing strike from the boy. They were still testing each other. 

*How?* he thought. He'd never used a Dragonmark before, obviously. But moreover, unlike Brim or Ven, he'd never been a spellcaster to begin with. He'd always avoided the lot, and if possible, avoided jobs that ended up clashing with them. Too many unknowns. 

Snipe waited for a particularly loud explosion to sound off behind the boy, then used the temporary distraction to close the distance and strike again. Annoyingly, the boy turned back just in time to sidestep and smash the hilt of his sword down into Snipe's outstretched wrist. 

They faced each other again, Snipe now attempting to hide the pain in his wrist from his expression. 

*He's toying with me,* Snipe realized suddenly. *The fear is a show*. It had to be. The boy had been *barely* evading his attacks, looking for all purposes desperate and at the edge of his limit. But Snipe had *seen* him turn to glance behind him at the explosion. The only way he could've reacted to Snipe's blow in time was if he were baiting the attack. 

Snipe fell a chill come over him. *They wouldn't send a green recruit on an important mission like this,* he realized. 

The boy smiled suddenly, returning Snipe's intimidation tactic. This time --- perhaps only this time --- it was Snipe who balked. 

*What can he do?* he thought. 

He soon found out. 

With a flourish, the boy leaped forward, dancing toward, away, and around Snipe faster than he could even track. He seemed to move with supernatural speed, and though Snipe swung wildly in response, spinning to follow him, his blade *always* missed by mere hairs. Meanwhile, the boy was slicing at him over and over. 

*He knows that won't kill me*, Snipe thought desperately, as the stabbing-oriented weapon left him crisscrossed with painful --- but nonlethal --- gashes. *What's his game?* 

It took him a few extra moments in the fog of the fight to realize it. 

*He's just stalling to keeping me from the others!* He couldn't afford to look, not while under the constant barrage of swipes, but he couldn't help but glance over toward the rest of the battle to see why he was being held in distraction. 

It was the opening his opponent was waiting for. In a blink, the boy was up against him, holding him in an almost tender embrace with one arm, his rapier stabbed straight through Snipe's abdomen by the other. He felt hot breath in his ear.

"You've learned not to underestimate me," the boy whispered, the voice steady despite its youth. "Soon, Sharn will learn they underestimated House Tarkanan." 

He twisted the rapier, sending a spasm of pain shuddering through Snipe's form. Then he slid the blade out, letting Snipe fall to the floor, and turned back to the rest of the battle. 

-----

Jab was coming to realize it was challenging to have a decent conversation with someone while trading blows. 

He'd made straight for the imposing figure of Sbar'n, if anything simply to take responsibility for his own poor rope-tying skills earlier. But that didn't mean they couldn't have a pleasant conversation, right? 

"You're exceedingly strange," Sbar'n had managed while Jab re-introduced himself over a barrage of fists and elbows. 

*It's funny,* he thought. *You've never really had any desire to kill... but isn't that what Merrix made you for?* He, of course, wasn't directly built by Merrix. But the mysterious nature of his "youth" --- if he fought in the Last War, as all warforged were built to, he had no memory of it --- and his lithe, refined construction left some open questions regarding his personal inclinations. 

He dodged another strike from Sbar'n, this one laced with fire. *Maybe you were built to be a cook,* he thought. *You do love cooking.* That, despite never getting to taste his creations. 

Swirling under Sbar'n's heavy arms, he ducked between his legs and popped up behind the man. *I wonder if my friends actually liked my food, or if they just pretended.* Ven had eaten in a stormcloud of silence... but that was just Ven, he supposed. She'd gone out with that Lyrandar friend of hers. Jab wondered if something they'd discussed had bothered her. 

Brim had nodded and smiled and made a rather big show of enjoying the meal. Jab was again stymied in discerning the truth. Was she placating him, or simply expressing her typical enthusiasm. 

*How can I become a good cook if no one gives me an honest opinion?* he lamented, diving sideways to avoid a crackling ball of flame from Sbar'n. 

If anyone would give him an honest opinion, it would be Snipe. The brooding mercenary had never even considered putting energy into placating others, it seemed. 

Jab looked over to the side of the room where Snipe had been dueling another agent, then blinked, his senses sparking. It took him a split second to see the outline of Snipe's body crumpled to the ground. He turned back too late to stop the blow from Sbar'n flashing across his temple. All went white. 

-----

*Work the problem,* Ven thought, crouching behind the set of crates and barrels that were slowly being burned, exploded, or cast away during the fight. 

She'd sent Cinder scampering forward toward the device, knowing her fox could vanish and reappear over short distances. But while three of the four agents --- including Sbar'n from the airship battle before --- had launched into combat with her friends, one had stayed behind to guard the metallic sphere. 

Unfortunately, this individual --- who wore a high-collared duster that was considered out of style even when Ven had been a denizen of Sharn --- appeared to be their resident telekenetic. Every time Cinder got near, or, for that matter, any of the fighting groups, he swept an imperious arm and shoved them ten or fifteen feet away. 

She could feel innately her strange flaming companion could not take much more of that punishment before passing from existence. Thankfully, there was plenty of distraction. Brim, from behind her shield, was trading magical blasts with one of the agents, Jab was fighting Sbar'n, seeming to have little trouble dodging around the man's powerful, but slow, attacks, and Snipe... well, she hadn't seen Snipe in a while, actually. 

*He sure does know how to hide away*, she thought. 

That was when she heard Jab cry out, 

"Snipe!"

She jerked her attention over to Jab, who was looking over toward the corner of the room. There, she saw the slumped form of Snipe, his opponent stalking back towards the center of the room. With a sickening thud, she watched as Sbar'n capitalized on Jab's distraction to land a massive blow to his head, sending him tumbling to the floor. 

*Oh, Khyber Below,* Ven whispered. *This is a death trap*. She glanced over at Brim, near the edge of panic. Brim caught her eye from her own cover, then held up a hand as a tiny, ineffectual puff of arcana drifted off it. 

Brim was dry. 