# Chapter 19 


Ven stared at the carnage before her. *You're going to die here,* she thought, unbidden. But it wasn't wrong. Snipe and Jab were down, seemingly easily dispatched by their opponents. Brim was out of magic. Cinder couldn't get close enough to the device. Especially not now, with all four Tarkanan agents turning their attention to her and Brim. 

*Plus Mistress Tarkanan will probably appear at any moment,* she thought, helplessly.

She thought about calling on her fire, the smouldering heat within her that had been there since the Mourning. But she knew the agents, at least Sbar'n, were of fire themselves. She doubted it would be that effectual. 

There was a part of her that already knew, in the back of her mind, what she needed to do. But she still rebelled against the decision. 

It had been sitting there since the *Zephyr*. Etched into her shoulder, thrumming softly. *Power*. Similar to her wellspring of fire that she often cast, drawing from the pit of her stomach. But this was far, far deeper, an ocean of depths Ven couldn't begin to fathom.

That alone was reason enough not to use it. 

She'd felt that since the airship as well. An anxiety, a nervous energy. The power from her mark felt as if held back by a dam, and if she opened it, she had no idea how reality would be reshaped in its image. 

*The power is yours, Ven,* came a thought, with a signature Ven now recognized as Cinder's. *You're not betraying yourself by using what you've been granted... plus, I really need to get to this metal ball thing, and we are shit out of options.*

Ven spared a moment to consider the metaphysical implications of Cinder picking up swear words, but it was only a temporary comfort. 

*You're saving your friends,* she thought, steeling herself. Then she stood, stepping around the half destroyed crates that had been serving as her cover. 

Three Tarkanan agents stood arrayed before her. The fourth was down, having taken the brunt of Brim's attacks as well as a few odd crossbow bolts from Snipe before he went down. 

They clustered over the so-called dragonseye device in a V-shape. For a moment, everything went silent in the chamber, which was returned to the sounds of roaring applause, cheering, and stamping in the floorboards above. 

Ven looked at the three agents wearily. Sbar'n stepped forward, grinning, fire alighting in his eyes and at his fingertips. 

Ven raised a hand, and let the dam break. 

\switchchar{*

Brim watched as fire erupted from Ven's hand. Not the small balls of fire she occasionally hurled, or the blasts she occasionally sent forth. Not the typical mix of oranges, whites, and reds that make up flame like that of her forges back home. 

A column of pure red, nearly liquid-like in it's intense viscosity, instantly traversed the space between Ven and the Tarkanan agents. It promptly went straight through them barrelling through the crates and barrels behind them, then through the wall of stone in the plateau itself. 

Brim droped her shield and raced forward, grabbing Jab's shoulders and pulling him away from the inferno. He had been, thankfully, just adjacent to it. While light burns covered his front, he appeared to have only been grazed. 

The roar of the fire filled the chamber, sounding to Brim's ears like a forge being stoked to full tilt. Oddly, she didn't feel her face smarting from the heat, despite being only a few feet away. She could almost swear she could feel something singing within her, resonating with the cold, visceral energy after the blast. 

It seemed to last a lifetime, but it must've only been a few seconds. Ven collapsed to her knees as the blood flames extinguished. She seemed alive, if spent, and held her head in her hands. 

Before her, the bodies of the three Tarkanan agents were left as charred husks on the ground, stripped of most of their mass and burned through to hardened ash. 

Incredibly, the dragonseye seemed to have incurred no damage, despite having sat squarely in the blaze. If anything, the interlocking metal strips seemed to have been polished to perfection.

*In fact,* Brim thought, *I swear I can see red tendrils...* She jumped. *It's Starting!* 

She raced forward again, grabbing Ven by the shoulder and shaking her. 

"Ven, snap out of it," she whispered as loudly as she dared. Above, the crowd had silenced, and she had no clue if it was because of the noise of the blast, the end of the speech, or something else. 

"We have to get this, Jab, and Snipe out of here *now*," she continued, gesturing at the device. On the far side of the room, she saw that the column of flame had burrowed deep into the stone, carving a smouldering passage that looked to be several hundred feet deep.  

Ven looked up at her, the hollowness in her eyes striking a strange fear into Brim. Her cheeks seemed gaunt, as if she'd lost significant weight. Her hands trembled in her lap. *Oh, Ven*, Brim thought. *What did you do?*

She turned to try and at least move Jab and Snipe to safety before reinforcements arrived from above, but froze when she saw deep red tendrils snaking out from the dragonseye directly into her friends. 

A moment later, they began to stir.

-----

Snipe had died. Or at least, he was pretty sure he'd died. Or was at the brink of death, certainly. 

The thought didn't bother him; he'd made peace with the fact that his line of work would find him in such situations. But this was the first time he'd felt himself on the threshold. 

*I got played for a fool,* he thought, bitterly. *And by a teenager at that.* An arcanically enhanced teenager, but still. 

He still struggled to figure out how the kid had kept getting the best of him. *It must've been magic*, he thought, though he hadn't seen the boy casting any spells. 

*Not now,* he jogged himself. *The dying, remember?* Right. The dying. He was --- he was pretty sure. That was okay. He hoped the others got the dragonseye. But he hoped they didn't give it to Merrix. Or to Tarkanan. They should really just dump it off the city's edge into the Dagger River. 

*Focus!* 

It was hard to focus when there was nothing to see. He was vaguely aware that the cacophonous sound of combat had stopped around him, rather abruptly he thought, but time was fuzzy here. He wished he could see the battlefield. 

*You could've saved yourself*. He felt a calmness, a barrier holding back both the foreverdarkness and the panic of his approach to it. *You should've tried to use it*. 

He shrugged, mentally. *I still don't know how,* he thought. *But hey, if it could've saved me then, why can't it save me now?*

He felt a thrum, and in the dark space he inhabited, he saw a mote of red light ahead of him. By intuition, he willed himself toward it, and it grew larger as his consciousness approached. 

The sparking, crackling ball of red energy floated before him, about the size of an egg. He cupped his hands around it, and could feel the energy beating within, but still didn't know how to access it. He could feel... almost a frustration from it. Like it felt the answer should be obvious. 

He didn't know how long he spent there, focusing on the energy, trying to pull it into himself. He tried eating it --- but his metaphorical teeth couldn't crack it nor could he swallow it whole. When he tried to move it, it only did so with heavy resistance, and left him with a vague, itchy sensation. 

He had given up, "sitting" criss cross before the thing as the foreverdarkness slowly approached, encroaching in on his vision and sapping him of energy and will, when something new appeared. 

It struck across his vision like red lightning, splitting into two channels that connected both him and the crackling ball of energy to the stream. He felt his consciousness arch as he was flooded with new sensations, like fire flowing though veins and breath exuding life itself. 

-----

Snipe gasped awake on the floor of the cavern. Brim was above him, already tugging him toward a tunnel that definitely hadn't been there before... though he was admittedly still fairly disoriented.

As another moment went by, he felt strength flowing into his muscles. He stood, shaking off the disorientation, and surveyed the scene. 

Ven was alive. She was lit from below by her fox, Cinder, standing in the mouth of the strange new tunnel. Jab was sitting up, holding his head, but moving to stumble toward the tunnel with Brim's help. He saw that Brim had tied the dragonseye to her armor and slung it over her shoulder. 

He saw three husks of black on the ground. *Our enemies, presumably*, he thought. *Ven really has a fire affinity. You should keep an eye on her*. He eyed the tunnel, which seemed to be both in line with the husks and somewhat smouldering itself, as tiny flecks of ash drifted around the entrance. *That's insane,* he thought, and wrote off the implication. 

He moved as quickly as he dared toward the tunnel, hoping not to drip, joining Brim and Jab, supported on her shoulder. But with each step, he felt his strength return, and by the time he was by Brim, he was urging them all forward. 

Joining Ven, they raced down the dark tunnel as the sounds of footsteps sounded into the room. *Tarkanan,* he thought. *Finally realized her conversion ceremony wasn't going to plan.*

He had no interest in meeting Tarkanan. From what little he knew, she held her position as "House" matriarch beause her aberrant powers were... significant. He had no doubt she would not suffer the fate of her acolytes if they faced her. 

*I hope this tunnel leads somewhere,* he thought, as the sounds of the chase echoed louder behind them. Cinder bounded ahead, providing both light and direction. Ven stumbled, seemingly in a daze, but Jab already seemed to be back to his former self.

Until they reached the end of the tunnel. *No!* Snipe thought. *It can't be a dead end!* They skidded to a halt at the stark wall of stone before them, where the tunnel seemingly petered out into crumbling rock. 

Snipe spun around, looking back up the tunnel. 

Mistress Tarkenen needed no light. Her body itself glowed lightly with an orange hue, her bright red hair flowing behind her. She wore stylish, but tactically viable clothing --- a type of leather duster that seemed half robes, half tight mercenary vest. 

Close behind her came three more acolytes. Their eyes burned with hatred; they'd seen the bodies in the chamber. Mistress Tarkanan looked serene. As they approached, Snipe felt the terror sinking in. He heard a voice to his right: Ven's voice, scratchy, and hauntingly hollow, but firm. 

"Cinder, Now!" 

The fox leaped up onto Brim's shoulder. She was standing in the center of their group, dragonseye held protectively in the crook of her arm. 

Cinder yipped, and in a small burst of flame, Snipe felt reality constrict around him, compressing him into an infinite singularity before the pressure subsided and he tumbled back into reality in a dark alley just outside the warehouse. 

His friends appeared with him, the fox looking somehow distinctly proud of its accomplishment. 

But Snipe could only remember the last thing he'd seen inside. As Cinder had begun their teleportation, the acolytes leaping forward in response, Tarkanan had simply stood there. And Smiled. 

Brim caught his shoulder to steady him, and the four haggard, beaten thieves ran off into the night. 

# End of Book I