# Chapter 2

Ven surveyed the scene within the cockpit with dismay. The small room, which had a large, forward tilted and tinted window which extended fully around the chamber — affording 360 degree views of the ship and surrounding sky — was suffused with the oxidized, metallic scent of blood. 

Crumpled in a motionless heap in the back corner of the room was Captain Hass, a vicious looking black necrotic wound still slowly eating its way through his body. 

Left alive, barely, was the pilot, who was currently on his knees, blood pouring from a gash in his forehead, barely hanging with one hand to the console from which the pilot’s control emanated. His other hand reached, shaking, upward, tracing the slight somatic elements to the command of the control rod. 

It was a fascinating device. A single metal rod protruding from a wooden box, the pilot exerted their will on the bound elemental by channeling commands through this antenna. 

Ven could tell that the pilot was doing everything in their power just to hold the entire system steady. Cursing her lack of a medical kit --- it was in her chambers, too far now --- she ripped some cloth from her tunic and attempted to staunch the worst of his wounds. She could feel him trembling in her hands. 

She felt a shudder from below, and in that moment, noticed the trap-door in the back corner of the room. The captain had half fallen over it, clearly attempting to defend it from the masked combatant. 

There was nothing much more she could do for the pilot, who, she knew in the heart of her medic’s intuition, was likely going to die. Tying off the cloth bandage, Ven moved to the trap door. 
She stared at it for a few moments, knowing that whatever lay below was probably about to kill her, too. 

As another second ticked by, Ven felt a white-hot nudge from behind, and looked back to see her small fox, now quite fully aflame, looking at her expectantly. 

Taking a deep breath to steel herself, she threw open the trapdoor and began climbing down the ladder to the cargo hold. 

Ven dropped down behind a set of nondescript looking crates, and immediately felt the sparkling thud of a spell impacting the wood above her head. She ducked down, and crawling forward, peeked around the side of the crate in front of her. 

The rest of the cargo hold, extending to the front of the bow, was remarkably empty. The captain — she winced — was evidently not a great businessman when it came to filling his hold.

Standing at the very front of the hold, in the corner formed by the two hull halves joining, was the fifth passenger on their journey. The one who’d never even given the rest of them a name. 

Clutched to his chest in one arm was a small barrel, only around a foot in diameter. His other hand was up in front of him, tracing some type of magic. 

Penning him into the corner were three of the intruding attackers, including the one she’d fought on deck, who’d ended their interaction by knocking her out for a few seconds and disappearing. A forth assailant was off to the side, seemingly concerned only with pumping spell after spell into the forge-like arcane engine that powered the ship’s nexus. 

*Sovereigns, they’re trying to destroy the ship, too,* she thought. 
 Ven watched as one of the others launched another offensive spell at the figure, where it ricocheted off of some sort of abjurative shield and impacted the roof above them. 
 
“Enough of these games, we need the dragonseye, now,” growled the largest of the three, seemingly the leader. “Aja, please.” 
The third individual, who thus far had not acted, didn’t respond, besides raising a hand and flicking it to the side. 

In an instant, whatever shields the individual had shattered, and he went flying sideways into the wall of the hull, stumbling away dazed but still gripping the barrel in a death grip. 

Ven had no idea what was in that barrel, no knowledge of who this individual was. But she heard a small voice, an intuition, in her head, that spoke in flickering, flaming tones. And she knew, without a doubt, that once these people got whatever was in that barrel, they were going to leave, and make sure no one on this ship survived. 

Hoping the three were all distracted by their quarry, she stepped out from behind the crate, readied herself, and reached for the magic.

-----

“We gotta help her!” Brim heard the words, barely, coming over the edge of the deck of the ship before they were snatched by the wind. She had finished repairing the elemental ring and re-emerged on deck to discover that, save for unconscious or dead bodies, the forward deck was now deserted. 

Running over to the edge, she looked over the edge to see Snipe and Jab looking in the windows of the cargo hold. 
“What’s happening?” Brim called down to the two on the fin, and looking up, Jab called back,

“There’s something bad going down in the cargo hold! Ven looks like she’s in trouble!” 

Brim turned and sprinted her way into the wreckage of the pavilion, searching for the staircase leading down into the hold. 

She found it quickly; it appeared someone else had gone through before her and cleared the way. Stooping under the low ceiling, Brim squeezed her frame down the narrow, steep stairs and into the cargo hold. 

Several things then happened very rapidly. Ven, standing to one side of the hold, had a hand outstretched toward the menacing group at the front end of the hold. She loosed a column of fire in their direction, which blasted across the small chamber and sent them sprawling to dodge it.

At nearly the same moment, there was a sound of shattering glass, and looking over, Brim saw the butt of Jab’s spear retreat through a now broken window, to be replaced by his head as he scrambled through, dropping down into the room near Ven. 

As this was going on, the dazed passenger, still gripping the small barrel to their side, was attempting to sprint through the temporarily distracted attackers. Brim found herself wondering whether this additional mysterious passenger was also bad news. 

As Snipe tumbled, less gracefully than Jab, through the open window, Brim reached for the holy symbol she wore around her neck and squeezed. It was warm to the touch already, though whether from her deity’s presence or the flames she’d been wading through she didn’t know. 

As one hand traced a sigil in the air, she mouthed a short incantation — a forge blessing, often used before a session in the workshop. It was a minor spell, but one that had saved her hammering a finger numerous times in the forge back home. 

She reached out, and felt the blessing extend out to her three new… companions? They felt, suddenly, indeminiably, like a group, though perhaps one only joined by the acute purpose of not dying. 

The next few moments flew by in a blur. Spells of various kind ricocheted through the darkened hold, temporarily flaring with light. The telekinetic assailant tossed several of the crates at them; he even once tried to fling Brim, but her collective heft, plus that of the layers of forge-hardened clothing and her shield kept her firmly in place. 

To her own ends, Brim immediately realized that the forth assailant in the room — the one focused on the arcane engine — was doing major damage to the ship. It only took a few strikes of her hammer to take them out of commission.
T
here was a brief stalemate, or at least an equilibrium, established. With five of them (counting the mysterious passenger protecting their prize, whatever it was) against three,  the assailants, despite being clearly more powerful, couldn’t advance on the fifth passenger without taking a barrage of damage from behind. 

“This is taking too long,” growled the big, burly one in charge, and, grabbing the smaller of his companions, held them aloft like a human shield against Brim’s sacred flames and made a dash for the fifth passenger. 

Brim stepped forward, attempting to close the gap, but before she took a second step she saw a forcefield of magic begin to encircle and surround the boss, minion, and fifth passenger. With a wink, the field collapsed in on them and they were gone. 

“Short range teleport!” Brim heard Ven call out, as she flung another spell at the final, abandoned enemy. The figure, while still fighting, had clearly been worn down. 

Ven continued, “They must be somewhere on the ship —take this!”
Brim turned just in time to see a small, flaming fox being tossed in her direction. Instructions unclear, she caught the creature, which despite its flaming nature didn’t seem to hurt her, and saw Ven pointing over at Jab. Brim stepped to the side to come up next to the Warforged, and with a small yip, the fox emitted a burst of fiery energy and Brim felt herself being sucked into the void. 

Brim blinked, and found herself on the top deck of the ship, immediately above where she had been standing, Jab next to her, and the little fox still in her arms. Brim moved to place the critter on the deck but it jumped lightly from her arms before she could. She noticed the fox didn’t actually stand on the ground, but hovered several inches up.  

“Aren’t you a funny one,” she said, and then turned to look around the deck. 

It wasn’t a pretty sight. Bodies, primarily of the crew, but also of several assailants, were strewn around the forward deck. The main pavilion, in which they had been relaxing before this all started, looked like it had been bombed. (Well, Brim supposed, it sort of had been). 

She saw no sign of the attackers who’d teleported seconds before them, but saw jab pointing up and back, toward the raised pilot’s chambers. Standing on the roof of that chamber, peering up toward their own grey ship, still tracking them several hundred feet up, were the two black-clad attackers. There was no sign of the fifth passenger, and Brim swallowed, knowing there was really only one place they could’ve gone. She heard a voice next to her. 
“Should we… just let them take it? It looks like they’d leave us alone,” Jab mused. 

Brim surveyed the damage around them again. 
“No. When they arrived, they were already targeting the critical components of this ship. I think they’re going to blast us straight out of the sky as soon as they’ve escaped.” 

Jab nodded in agreement, and began leaping through the wreckage to try to get to the attackers. 

Brim knew he’d never make it in time. The main figure was already beginning to trace out the sigils of another short range teleportation, and the ship above had now tacked to approach them. 
They only had a few seconds. 

Eyeing the distance, Brim gripped her symbol tightly and called forth a flame of Onatar, sending it streaking toward the two figures standing in the wind. She hoped, prayed, that by forcing them to dodge, she could throw them off balance. 

The smaller of the two — she’d named him human shield, though she had no idea of his race — threw themselves successfully out of the way, disappearing from view over the edge of the roof. The other one also saw the blast streaking towards him. He moved to dodge, and Brim watched as he mostly evaded the flames... And tripped. 

As if in slow motion, the small barrel left his hands, soaring across the space between them in an arc. It landed somewhere in the ruined pavilion. 

Brim could hear the sound of wood cracking, and stepped forward, spotting the barrel, now splayed open, displaying its mysterious interior contents. 

She had, by all accounts, no idea what she was looking at. It was a sphere constructed of metal strips, finely crafted, all interlocking and spinning like elements of an orrery. She could see some type of crystal embedded in the thing at various turns. 

She had only a moment to dwell on it. The breaking of the housing seemingly activating something about the device, it had begun to spin up even faster, and a red, viscous energy was emanating from within it, flowing around it like a blanket. 

Then it exploded. 

Red energy blasted from the object, seemingly ignoring the material components of the ship. But it didn’t ignore Brim, who felt a blinding pain, like her whole body had fallen into the forge. Her vision swam red, and then she slipped, almost gratefully, into unconsciousness. The last thing she heard was the sound of Jab thunking to the deck next to her.