# Interlude I


The handmaiden to Matriarch Esravash Felarin Geyanai d'Lyrandar I, first of her name, sat hunched over a set of dusty, opened tomes. Each were lines with cramped text denoting the familial lineages of the twelve or so families that officially made up House Lyrandar. Sweat pooled on her brow; the storage room she had been stowed in had no windows, and the only light she had was provided by a single everglow lantern directly above the table at which she worked. It was mounted high enough that Chell had to lean over the books, squiniting closely --- which then frustratingly blocked the light. She had a headache, and her spectacles keps slipping down her nose onto the books from the sheen on her face. She had been reading for ten hours.

The door to the room slammed open, sending her jumping nearly out of her seat. She cowed slightly as the smooth footsteps of Esravash brought the Matriarch around to the other side of the humble table, where she stood over Chell. 

"Well, what have you learned?" It wasn't phrased as a question.

Chell swallowed, gathering her wits and her notes. 

"Your Excellency, I've made it through all scions and cousins of the house amongst the twelve younger than the age of 50; all of the ones here in Stormhome, many of those spread around the continent."

Her matriarch waited expectantly. 

"All are accounted for thus far, Your Grace" Chell continued, looking down to avoid the withering gaze. "Are... are you sure it's not a foundling?" 

Esravash dismissed her with a wave of her hand. "The traitor both had a mark of storms *and* an intricate knowledge of house affairs. That they even knew we *were* building it was a major breach, but they knew much more: *where* we were building it, guard details, operational guidelines."

She paused. "No, this was an inside job. Keep working. If you run out of suspects, send inquisitors round to the families and start squirreling out any abandoned bastards and the like. Use gossip before intimidation, and do *not*, under *any circumstance*, give any indication of what the questioning is actually about." 

Esravash turned and strode purposely from the room, stopping at the door frame to look back with rage simmering in her eyes. "Find my ship, Chell." 