# Interlude II


*In the darkness, they heard whispers.*






One by one, Ven, Brim, Snipe, and Jab, exhausted, drifted into fitful sleep. Even Jab, usually ever-present, felt his consciousness slip to a distant, fuzzy place. None noticed the low bath of light, humming and red, sweeping through their apartments from the place within the walls they had torn open and mended over to hide their ill-gotten totem. The whispers tickled at their throats. 

Jab found himself drifting back to *Precarious*, just after they'd escaped Tarkanan's warehouse. They'd all raced through the alleyways of the district, but had been trapped in *Callestan* when all the major bridges back into the central plateau had been shut down by the Sharn Watch. The crowd pushing to leave the district had been tense; he could feel it around him again, like a living thing, on the teetering edge of chaos. 

"One at a time!" The Watch guard waved people forward, flanked by two spear-weilding partners, a third stepping up to search each individual breaking forward. 

Tunics were lifted, clothes pulled aside unceremoniously, as the guard peppered each unfortunate soul with questions. 

"Why were you in Callestan this evening?"

"Do you have any history of aberrancy in your family?"

"Do you know of the seditious activities underway in the district this evening?"

Jab approached the bridge within the crowd, whose angry yelling was growing by the minute. The large square was packed with people, some of whom had climbed atop a long collapsed statue to better shout things at the Watch holding the bridge. He recognized several from the marches down to the warehouses. Several, in front of him, had been discovered and carted off the square.

He stepped forward, double checking that the metal flap Brim had made him was covering his mark. With luck, they'd think it was just a part of his leg. They'd scouted every possible route, but the chasm between the plataus was too large. A bridge was the only way. 

He glanced to the right, to a dark alleyway leading off the square, and saw her, red hair ringing a shadowed face, red eyes glowing. Smiling. He shook his head, and turned back to the guards in front of him, stepping forward nervously.

"Hey, Stop!" one called out, drawing a sword toward him. Jab froze. Looking down, he saw that from under the slat, red, viscous light was leaking out from his dragonmark. As the moments ticked by, his panic mounting, the film of energy surrounded him like a sheath. 

He felt the impact as two of the Watch tackled him to the ground, trying desperately to reign in the energy. He felt, but did not truly see, the thump of his own body exploding outward in a red flash, sending the crowd around him collapsing in screams that turned from anger to pain. Everything went dark.

*The mists stung*. 

Jab took a hesitant step forward, then another. He could see the metal and wood of his arm beginning to corrode away under the piercing flow of the grey fog, almost liquid in its eddies and flows. The landscape was twisted and broken; ashen, unidentifiable shapes jutted and crested the scarred ground before retreating back beneath. No light penetrated from above, though the mists themselves appeared to illuminate their surroundings with some sick, hollow light. A negative light. 

Gazing around, there was little to break the monotony of the desolation. A hill before him, or perhaps it was a remnant of a tall building. It shifted in the mists. 

Jab kneeled down, running his hands through the ash. It was unlike that of any fire he'd seen. A small flower was pushing, struggling to cast aside the ash weighing it down. He brushed it off, and it burned his hands. It glowed, with that same negative light. 

"You shouldn't touch them," came a quiet voice next to him. Jab looked to his side, and saw a man kneeling in the ash next to him, the mists swirling between them. He had dark, curling hair, shorn at ear length. Where his eyes should be, empty sockets greeted him, each revealing the stalks for several more of the flowers, which bloomed in front of his forehead. More grew from lacerations in the skin on his cheeks. 

Jab glanced down at his own hand, where blooms were beginning to push through the tendonous fibers of wood and metal that formed his wrist. Where they grew, they spread apart the tightly enwound elements of his form. It didn't hurt, though. He looked back at the man; his head was now nothing more than a skull, all traces of flesh picked clean. The flowers remained. 

He stood, stepping away as the corpse thudded to the ground on its side. The dark shape before him in the distance shifted once more, now rising up through the mists, up and up, until its size could no longer be estimated. 200 feet? It shuddered towards Jab, and as the mists swirled and flowed around it, revealing it, Jab saw himself --- or a reflection of himself, a copy, a *warforged*, only towering above him and the landscape. It turned to face him, and its eyes glowed red. 

-----

Ven looked down at her blood covered hands, but it was not her blood. She stood with a Jorasco healer; before her on a makeshift table lay a villager. The sounds of battle could still be heard in the distance. Swords clanged and men died. When the winds changed, the smell of death enroiled the camp, and Ven staggered to keep to her feet. She was somewhere in the countryside, near edge of Cyre's lands. 

The healer with her fell, she knew not from what. Every time she looked back at the villager, his wounds worsened, new ones appearing every time he left her periphery. She rattled through the healer's bags, looking for implements, gauze, even, anything to help the wounds. She kept seeing the salve she needed and grasping it, only to lift it up and find it was something else entirely. 

She looked back at the man, but found not the villager, but the young pilot of the *Morning Zephyr*, charred and sliced open. She looked up and found herself at the helm of the ship. She could feel the skyship lurching downward into a near dive. She could see her companions hanging on to the railings of the deck outside, before being ripped off, one by one. She tried to control the ship, but it only dived faster. Her mark flared, draining her and sending arcing, jagged red lightning into the control rod. *It's not enough*, and down the ship flew, faster now, and her mark was flaring stronger, the floodgates open, the elemental ring of the ship screaming, the ground rushing up to meet her. 

She woke up in a cold sweat, looking around wildly. A hand, dark, and calloused, found her shoulder. 

"It's alright, Ven," came the low, melodic voice. Owain smiled at her. "Just another nightmare." 

She sank back into the sheets of the cot she lay on within the small tent, a single flickering lantern providing low light. Owain moved from his kneeling position by the cot to a crouch, then made his way out of the tent. *Everything's fine,* she thought. *Just a dream*.

But everything was not fine. She grasped at the unease in clawing at the back of her mind, the hairs on her neck spiked up between bumps of gooseflesh. *Owain is dead,* she thought. *He's DEAD.* 

She threw off the covers, throwing a rough coat over her nightgown and raced from the tent, eyes scanning for Owain. She was at camp, the tents spread out in a circle, their wagons parked defensively on either side of the large fire, now smouldering in the morning light. *This camp was destroyed*, she thought, and spotted Owain halfway across the small field that held their camp, heading for the tall, proud forest at its edge. 

*The forest is death*.

Ven yelled, her voice hoarse and cracking, running forward as Owain didn't respond. She was halfway across the field when he disappeared between the branches. Her nightgown was ripping at the ankles, tripping her up and slowing her. She yanked it up to her knees to aid her sprint. 

She burst into the treeline, the light of morning immediately sundered by the thick canopy, deep shadows painting the forest floor in blacks and browns and greens. She called out for Owain and heard no response. *The forest is death*. 

Ven picked her way forward, over fallen branches and slick rocks, before glimpsing Owain up ahead. He was bent over, picking up branches and tossing some aside. *Firewood,* she thought, then felt a wave of heat run through her. *FIRE.* The briefest flash of an inferno grasped her vision, the forest around them alight. Owain turned around, and his eyes burned red. She blinked, and the forest was normal. *He* was normal.

She reached him in a flutter of fabric, nearly bowling him over as she grasped at him. 

"Ven!" he laughed, hoisting her up. "What's gotten into you?" 

Ven panted, catching her breath, catching his warm, woody scent. For some reason, it brought a tear to her eye. 

"We have to go," she forced out, once she could speak. She looked around wildly, searching for the threat. 

"Go where?" Owain asked, setting her down. "We'll just be a minute, I'm just grabbing some wood for the breakfast fire." 

Over his shoulder, the morning fog snaked forward toward them, winding around the trees and splashing against their trunks. He saw her watching and turned, frowning. 

"Huh, bit late for the fog to not have burned off," he said. "Guess the canopy keeps the sun off." 

Ven felt her heart rate spiking again. She grabbed his hand, trying to pull him along toward the camp. He protested, but seeing the state of her, relented and began walking back, being tugged along but sticking resolutely to his plodding pace. 

"Ven, you really gotta tell me what's going on. Did you dream something?" 

*The forest is death*. She didn't know how she knew. *The fog is death. No. Not fog. Mist.* 

She glanced back, and saw that the mist had risen, more of it sweeping in from deeper in the trees. It now rose to the tree tops, crashing toward them like a wave. As the mists passed over the trees, leaves and branches caught alight and burned away to ash. 

Now Owain saw it. "Thriced Damned," he cursed, grabbing her hand tighter and picking up the pace. "What is that?"

The two burst through the trees as the forest came apart in flames. Out of the corner of her eye, Ven could see animals, panicked, streaking out of the forest alongside them. She thought she saw a fox. 

She could feel the mists stinging at their heels, burning pinpricks starting to singe at her coat, her ankles. They burst through the treeline and began sprinting back across the field toward the caravan. Pulled along by Owain, she risked another glance back. From here she could see that the wall of mist rose far higher than the forest, like a cliffside inching its way across the land, relentlessly. There was nowhere to go. 

It caught them halfway across the field, crashing over them,  plunging them into darkness. There was nothing but the deep, infinite grey. She could feel Owain's hand in hers, but could barely see it. Her skin was alight in hot pain, like a thousand needles, her clothes were beginning to spark and catch flame. 

"Almost there." She heard the voice call to her, distant in the fog, husky through the mist, which felt like smoke in her lungs. She coughed. 

She knew she was dying. They both were. She'd done it before. She tried, one last time, to call out to Owain, but only felt the hand slip from her grasp as she tumbled to the ground. For the briefest moment, the grass and dirt was blessedly cool against her burning skin, before she felt it melt off. 
The world flashed around her as she died, and with her last blink of vision, she saw a small animal leap across the space before her.

\\
\\
\\

Ven opened her eyes, and before her, she saw the grand sweeping vista of the city of towers. She reeled from the transition; she now floated, incorporeal, somewhere away from the city, perhaps over the river. She tried to look around but could not; her view was fixed, as if watching a scene unfold in a memory. As she watched, the city before her blazed, crumbling and collapsing, the sounds of screaming just barely covering the rhythmic thumping of wings. 

\\
\\
\\

The Ring of Siberys, glittering and golden, arced across the sky overhead, the ocean below reflecting and refracting it like a sunset into a million twinkling shards. Ven glanced around. *This isn't Khorvaire* --- at least, she couldn't imagine it was; the angle of the ring overhead was far too great. 

It was, in fact, sunset, and as the star dipped below the horizon, the ring lit up even further, in brilliant, glittering glory. She squinted. There was movement in the sky. Not a bird. A moment later, another flit of movement, then another. As the sky darkened, it became unmistakable. Meteors, Siberys shards from the ring, began raining down, streaking overhead in brilliant fireballs. She craned her neck over to see where they were headed. Deeper inland somewhere. She looked back up to the ring. More were falling now. She'd never seen a shardfall before, but had heard of them. This seemed to be a big one. *A really big one,* she thought after a moment, as now the entire sky was alight with the streaking trails of the falling shards. 

One struck a hillside near her, exploding half of its face away, clumps of dirt and rock raining down. She ducked, dodging debris, and felt the ground rumble beneath her. She looked up in time to watch a fireball lumber overhead, filling nearly half the sky. It dropped below her horizon. A moment later, A blinding white light cracked across her. She blinked it away, holding up her arm, and looked at the horizon to see a column of explosion rising into the atmosphere. 




