# Chapter 3

In the now empty and mostly destroyed cargo hold of the *Morning Zephyr*, Snipe awoke with a groan. He and Ven had just cornered the last remaining attacker when his vision flashed red and in a blinding, encompassing pain, he’d been knocked unconscious. 

His whole body felt weak and trembled slightly — he was no longer shifted, and whatever had happened to him seemed to have drained what little energy he had left. 

Blinking around, he saw that both Ven and the assailant were both still down. He stepped over to the assailant and placed two fingers at their neck, expertly seeking out a pulse. He found none. 

It was at this point that he felt the searing pain again, red tinting over his eyes. But rather than suffusing his entire body, the pain was now isolated, locking into a spot on his calf. It felt like he was being branded --- a fate he’d just barely avoided once on a mission to “recover” a valuable sword from one of the most prolific blacksmiths in Sharn --- but he could tell the pain was radiating not from the surface of his skin inward, but rather from deep within his muscles outward. As if something were trying to escape. 

Snipe dropped to one knee as the pain left him woozy. He wanted to grab at his calf, but was afraid of what he’d feel when he did.

*What the fuck happened to me?* His mind scrambled for purchase, trying to piece together anything from the chaos of the fight, but found nothing. 

And then the pain was gone. Like two gears out of sync that were sparking and grinding against each other, something slipped into place and it’s like the pain had never been there. 

Instead, deep in his chest, connecting down through his spine to his calf, he felt a thrum of power. Of magic. 

Gingerly peeling up the legs of his pants, he steeled himself for whatever he was going to see. 

*A tattoo?* he thought, as his eyes took in the twisting, slightly undulating mark in his skin.* No, that’s not right.* It wasn’t ink, he was sure of it. In fact, if he didn’t know better, he’d say it looked almost like a dragonmark. 
	
Snipe was no expert in magic, or dragonmarks for that matter. He knew they appeared on some people, mostly genetically, and that there were thirteen houses --- extended families --- which bore a set of well understood dragonmarks. Those houses had over the centuries used the advantages those marks granted to craft economic dynasties. They were, many argued, more powerful in the politics of Khorvaire than the rulers of the five nations. 

Though he hadn’t seen every dragonmark — running into marked individuals wasn’t hugely common in his line of work — he knew that they formed some type of arcane sigil. They certainly didn’t look like this. 

The mark on Snipe’s calf had some of the intricacies of the arcane marks he’d seen on the forearms of, say, a House Jorasco healer or a House Ghallanda inn-keeper. But his were jagged, rough, more stabbing through each other than flowing around. And there was the red. The few dragonmarks he’d seen were a gentle bluish purple, looking much like a tattoo albeit maybe glowing slightly. His mark was a deep black with tendrils of glowing red tracing through each element of the mark. 

Snipe stood up and stretched, trepidatiously waiting for another wave of pain… but it never came. A slow, dangerous thought creeped into the back of his mind, one he realized he’d been pushing down for the last several minutes. 

On a hunch, Snipe stepped back over to the body of the assailant on the ground. Peeling away the layers of cut, burned, and blood-soaked robes, his eyes scanned the half-elf’s skin. 
It didn’t take him long to find the black and red mark that mirrored his own. 


-----

Ven came to with a start, a nightmare playing at the edges of her vision. Mist, fire, smoke in her lungs as she screamed, the strong hand pulling her through, her feet stumbling continuously.

She groaned. *No ascension ceremony is worth this*, she thought, before remembering the message she’d received from her mother in Sharn had been laced with veiled threats.

*Everything she says is a veiled threat,* Ven thought bitterly. Solia Selavir d’Lyrandar was a pragmatic, hard woman, and she ran the House’s Sharn Enclave with a steel hand. To her credit, she’d taken what was considered in House Lyrandar to be a position best granted as punishment --- stations in the House’s headquarters in Stormhome, Fairhaven in Aundair, or Tar Valestas in Valenar were all to be preferred over Sharn --- and turned it into one of the House’s most profitable enclaves. 

Lyrandars may turn their heads up at the less refined tenor of Breland, but Sharn was the biggest economic hub on the continent, and from this position, Solia had negotiated high-powered contracts with House Cannith and House Sivith, as well as the Aeranal elves (whose island was the only known source of the soarwood now being used to power Lyrandar airships). 

Ven had no interest in any of that --- her younger sister, Mariel, was clearly going to inherit those responsibilities. She’d expressed her dragonmark at age 10 with no prompting, as a teenage Ven looked on in confusion and jealousy.

Solia left Ven to her own devices after that — any energy she had left after a day of powerbrokering deals for her house was spent developing Mariel’s skills. On the night Ven packed her bags and left Lyrandar tower for what she thought would be the last time, she could see the glow from under her mother’s office door and the quiet sounds of her coaching Mariel in the channeling of the Mark of Storms. 

It had been a decade since that night. Ven, now nearly 30, had heard nothing from her family in Sharn as she travelled the continent. They’d probably forgotten her, she figured, their discussions of Lyrandar’s economic growth far more important than Ven’s aptitudes as a common healer. 

So when, a little over a week ago, Ven received a letter from Solia at the refugee camp just outside New Cyre where Ven was living and working, she was, to say the least, shocked. 
The letter, in her mother’s instantly recognizable, impeccable penmanship, indicated that Mariel would be soon undergoing the Trial of Siberys to, hopefully (almost certainly) exalt her dragonmark into its most powerful form. 

Ven shook her head. Of course Mariel couldn’t stop with just a dragonmark. She has to have a Siberys one. 

Ven knew that the Trial of Siberys was dangerous — most who attempted it died — but she had no doubt her sister would, with flying grace, manifest herself into the elite group of a dozen or so individuals on the continent with unrivaled magical affinity.

The letter continued to explain that such an event required all members of the Selavir family to be present. The House matron, Esravash d’Lyrandar, would be personally flying from Stormhome to witness the test, along with most of the House’s upper members. 

*Well, I’m not a Selavir anymore*, Ven thought. *It’s Ostler now*. But she knew it wouldn’t matter. As she read on, she learned, to her surprise, that Solia evidently knew she was here the last two years --- since the Mourning --- and had been furnishing supplies for the refugee camp without anyone realizing. 

*And there’s the threat*, Ven realized. *Come to Sharn, or I cut off the supplies and your poor refugees will suffer*. Ven couldn’t even comprehend how someone could use the lives of others as some sort of... collateral, but she knew that sort of thing was probably just in her mother’s daily arsenal of getting things done. 

She briefly considered whether her mother was bluffing, but soon discarded the thought. Solia never made threats she wouldn't carry out. *She probably allocated the supplies just to make sure she’d have leverage on me if she ever needed it,* she thought bitterly.

The one confusing aspect of the whole thing was the explanation. *She needs me to watch a ceremony for my sister?* Ven knew House Lyrandar had some ridiculously anachronsitic traditions, but also knew that Solia probably wouldn’t have shown her cards over something that simple. 

*There’s something else at play here,* Ven thought. *I’m sure of it.*

Ven saw Snipe notice her wake up, and clocked, but didn’t comment on, the fact that he quickly rolled down the leg of his pant when she looked over at him.

“You certainly know how to fight,” she said, rolling carefully into a sitting position, the bruises already forming under scrapes and light burns. 

“I know how to keep myself alive,” Snipe shrugged. “You didn’t seem so helpless yourself.”

Ven swallowed. *He’s not wrong,* she thought guiltily. *For a healer, I just threw a lot of fire at a lot of people.* 

“I’m going to go topside and see if there’s any crew still alive," she said. "I should be able to patch them up.” 

As she went to take a step toward the staircase out of the cargo hold, she too saw the ribbon of red haze flash before her eyes, a searing pain localizing within her body.

*Not again,* she thought, eyes widening in pain. The... thing, whatever it was, seemed to be searching for purchase somewhere in her body. She felt, somehow, the nature of the magic, as it sparked and chafed against her own mysterious powers she’d recently acquired. 

*No!* She shouted, silently into her own body.* I DON’T WANT IT!* 
With all her might, and considerable force of character, she tried to fight the thing, to push it out of her entirely. It felt wrong. Alien. Powerful. 

The struggle took her nearly to the edge of unconsciousness again before she felt the pain, which had now been pushed all the way to her left shoulder blade, subside. 

A tear rolled down her cheek, then another. She didn’t have to look to know that something was there now, on her back. She could feel it, the power, humming within her. She wiped the tears, and decided to pretend nothing had happened. At least for now.


-----

Jab looked at his leg with wonder. Dancing along the front of his quad — which was a beautiful, curving,  polished piece cherry wood inlaid into two metal strips — was a black and red mark that seemed to glow lightly. It was a dragonmark, he was sure of it!

He looked to his other dragonmark, the one on his shoulder, and wondered if he was the first person to ever have two dragonmarks at once. 

During the chaos of the fight, he’d lost his robes (or they’d burned away), but he was so excited about his new mark that he forgoed searching for them. He’d never really understood the point of clothing anyway. 

Instead, he assessed his surroundings. Looking up, he saw no sign of the sleek, gray airship that had brought the attackers. He also saw no sign of the final assailant — the one who’d dodged Brim’s attack — nor was there any sign of the so-called dragonseye device.

*Guess they left*, he thought.* Good riddance!* They weren’t nice at all. 

Looking around the deck, he saw Brimstone, still unconscious, but definitely breathing. He also saw the last, black-clad figure: the leader of the crew of attackers. He was lying face down on the deck, clearly having fallen from the roof of the cockpit after he tripped. 

Speaking of the cockpit, Jab hopped over to the railing and looked overboard. The ship was no longer moving forward — the fire elemental was humming, seemingly content, in the ring around the ship, but nothing was driving them forward. More worryingly, Jab could see they were still sinking. The treetops of the King’s forest below were much closer than he remembered from during the fight, and his internal sensors were registering a steady downward motion. 

Jab walked toward the pavilion, making his way toward the unconscious attacker.

Peering closely, it appeared the person was alive. 

*I should probably tie him up*, Jab thought. T*hat’s what they always do with bad guys in stories.* 

He hunted around for a few moments before finding a section of rope, and then, despite having no real knowledge of how to tie someone up, tried his best to restrain the figure’s movement. 

That accomplished, he climbed over to the staircase leading to the cockpit and scaled it up, two steps at a time. Entering the small chamber, he immediately noticed the issue that was driving the ship’s lack of motion and slow descent: the pilot was unconscious, crumpled on the floor beneath the controls. 

*I should get Ven*, he thought. *She said she was a healer.*

Returning back down to the deck, he saw that Brim was finally stirring. 

-----

Brim found herself standing before a massive anvil. To her side, a small table contained a familiar set of tools. Behind her, the roar of flames; she knew without looking it was a forge. 
The space itself was huge, a rocky cavern with a domed ceiling a hundred or more feet up. Brim, despite her 7 foot height, felt dwarfed by everything in this chamber. It was like it was a forge for the gods. 

Standing around 30 feet away, on the other side of the anvil, Brim saw her family: her Mother, Obsidian, and her younger brothers, Scoria and Basalt. Shane, her older brother, was not with them. 
She tried to call out to them, but Brim quickly realized this thirty foot gap was more of a gulf. Something was keeping them far away, and Brim knew they wouldn’t be able to help her with her task. 

Which was… what, exactly? Brim felt the comfort of the tools around her, of the plates of metal ready to be worked, but she didn’t know what she was supposed to make. 

“The work will make itself known.”

Brim heard the whisper, calming, and ancient. She picked up a hammer, moved one of the pieces of half worked metal into the flames of the forge, and set to work. 

Time passed, hours, maybe days. The nature of the work never clarified itself to her… but as she began, she realized she knew, almost like a brief future projection, where to strike next. But her strength was waning. 

“I’m sorry,” she called, “I don’t think I’ll be able to finish it.” She felt herself panicking slightly, frustrated as more of her strikes went awry as her hammering arm grew weaker. 

Brim wasn’t sure how much more time had passed, but she finally felt herself giving way. The hammer slipped from her grip, cracking a small chip from the stone floor before. She clung to the edge of the anvil to keep herself standing, staring down at it in shame. 

*I just wanted to help my family,* she thought.

Brim felt something in front of her. A presence. She looked up. Standing before her, just barely spectral, was a kindly looking dwarf. He was wearing his own blacksmithing garb, a well-stained and charred apron, tools hanging from a belt wrapped around the center. 

He examined the pieces laid out. 

“You should be proud of this work, Brimstone,” he rumbled, and despite his small stature, the words rumbled and boomed around the chamber, vibrating in her core. “Many would have given up far before this.” 

Taking one of the last components she had worked on, she felt a wellspring of pride and gratitude, mixed with a sprinkling of embarrassment as the final piece was the sorriest of her attempts, made just before her strength left her entirely. 

“You are stronger than you know,” the dwarf continued, as he lightly hammered at a few of the worst elements of the piece. They reformed instantly under his touch. 

“But sometimes, when the work is heavy, we must accept the strength of others, of other power.

“My strength is yours, and you know this,” he continued, the symbol around Brim’s neck glowing bright at the words, “but a new source of power has presented itself to you.” 

As he spoke, a large symbol appeared in the center of the anvil, some type of magic rune or set of runes she didn’t recognize. 

“This source of power is, in some ways, stronger than any I can give you,” the dwarf said, with a tinge of sadness. “But it comes with danger as well. It cannot guide you, cannot help you know when to use it. This you must learn for yourself.” 

The god picked up a hammer, and held it over the rune. 

“I will always do my best to guide you, Brimstone Mallerary,” he said. “And I may be able to shatter this new power here and now, if you wish to avoid it. But I have seen the work, made known, that lays before you. It is more than you will ever know. 

“Do not make this choice lightly.” And he held out the hammer, which Brim gingerly grabbed, worried it may fall directly from her exhausted arm. 

She held fast, and looked down at the mark. She didn’t need more help, did she? Dangerous help? Onatar would protect her... but only so much, she realized. Her mind flashed through the battle she had just endured, not two days after leaving home. If the world was such a dangerous place... perhaps dangerous power was needed to survive it. 

Brim wished, fervently, that she knew more of the world, had more knowledge with which to make this decision. But she didn’t. 	

She set the hammer down lightly on the side of the anvil. The dwarf nodded solemnly. 

“So the work begins, my child. Be brave. I am watching.” 

Brim woke with a start. The piercing blue skies over Breland looked back down at her as she instinctively grasped at her symbol. She knew, knew, whatever she just experienced wasn’t just a dream. The symbol was still warm. The memories of it weren’t unraveling away from her like dreams. She felt the soft rumbling in her chest, so reminiscent of the dwarf’s voice. 

She also knew, somehow, that the symbol she saw in her vision would be, now, somewhere upon her body. It took only a moment to find it, just there, upon her inner forearm. 

*My hammering muscles*, she thought, knowing how often her forearm muscles were called upon in her profession. 

As she sat up, she saw Jab approaching from the other side of the ship.

“What happened?” she asked. 

“Well... we teleported from the hold to here with the help of the little magic fox,” Jab replied. The fox, still on deck, yipped. 

“And then you shot something at the bad people, and he dropped the barrel, and it opened and inside it was a weird ball,” he continued.

“And then that thing exploded and knocked us out and now I think we have dragonmarks!” 

Jab beamed at Brim with the type of excitement she’d only ever seen on the Shavalant kids’ faces when the carnival came to town. 

She rubbed slowly at the mark on her arm. It was definitely raised from her skin, slightly, and she could feel a slight vibration in it when she touched it. 

“Oh, you’ve got one too!” Brim heard Jab as he bounded up, pointing at his own mark on his quad. Brim tried to contain it, but couldn’t prevent a giggle from escaping her. 

“I guess I do,” she said, knowing full well that Onatar’s words (was it really him?) were about the only thing keeping her sane at the moment. 
	
“Also, our pilot appears to be unconscious,” Jab continued, not quite grasping the change in tone that should’ve been necessary across that transition. “Should we get that healer girl to look at him?” 

It was at this point that Ven and Snipe emerged from the cargo hold of the ship. 

Both looked... okay? Snipe moreso, Brim thought. Ven looked like she’d seen a ghost, and was attempting very admirably to pretend that she hadn’t. 

“Pilot?” she asked, with no further context. Jab nodded up at the cockpit in response. 

“He’s not looking too... alive,” Jab said. “Unfortunately, we are very slowly, but nevertheless definitively, falling out of the sky.” He performed a quick mental calculation. “I suspect we have around 10 minutes until we crash into the treetops, if we don’t reverse it somehow.” 

Brim looked over at Ven, who seemed to not like this news at all. 

“Maybe we can fly the ship?” Brim asked, hoping for an easy solution. 

Ven sighed. 

“It takes a pilot with a Lyrandar mark --- a Mark of Storms --- to command the elemental. We might be able to keep ourselves airborne somehow, but we have little chance of actually moving the ship.” 

Jab frowned. That wasn’t very optimistic. 

“I have some healing abilities myself, Brim responded, “even though I’m not a healer. I have to cure a lot of banged and bruised fingers in the forge. Maybe we can patch up the pilot?” 

Ven only nodded tersely, her shoulders heavy and resigned. 
	
The group made their way over to the staircase.

“I tied that guy up!” Jab interjected as they passed the still unconscious body of the commanding assailant — and climbed up into the cockpit.	

It took only a simple medical examination to determine the pilot had passed away. 
	
-----

Ven could feel the blood beating in her ears. It passed hot across her upper back, where absolutely nothing was different about her. The other three were all looking at her expectantly. 

*What am I supposed to do?* She thought. *I’m no Lyrandar, not really. Mariel could fly this fucking thing.*

She looked up from the body of the pilot and saw her small fox looking piercingly at her, expectantly. 

*What?* She thought. *Do YOU think there’s something I should do?*

Ven had been in the company of this small creature for about four years now. She realized at this point that she should probably give it a name. But it had felt so foreign, just showing up at her tent when she woke the first time after... everything. *Maybe "Cinder"*, she thought, as it hiccuped a small puff of black smoke.  

She still didn’t really understand what it was, exactly. It looked like a fox, albeit a bit... glowy. But whenever Ven got stressed, it seemed to burst, glowing with gentle flames. Over time, she learned she could issue it commands, simple ones at least. 

But now, as it looked at her with flaming eyes, she realized it could also communicate with her. 

“Mariel’s not here,” it seemed to say. “You are fire as much as I am. Command this elemental.” 

Ven started. She hadn’t quite heard the words, not in any language at least, but the meaning was crystal clear in her mind. 

“I can’t,” she thought back. “I’ll crash us into the ground.” 

“We’re already crashing into the ground,” it seemed to think back.

Alright, Ven thought. Sassy fox then. 

Ven had no further arguments. She stood up, facing the strange, metal rod that served as the only  control for the ship. Her fox jumped up onto the console, wrapping into a ball near the rod, still looking at her. 

Feeling incredibly stupid, and feeling the eyes of the other three around her, she reached out her hands toward the rod. 	

Nothing happened. Or at least, it felt like nothing happened. She pushed, dipping into the magic she so recently manifested, but nothing was breaking through to the rod. She felt tears welling at the corners of her eyes. 

As she struggled, her fox hummed slightly, egging her on.

*Don’t think*, it seemed to say. *Just let it flow.*

Ven took a deep breath, and held her hands back up again. Cupping the air around the rod, she tried not reaching for her magic, but the knowledge, lodged in her brain, of airship mechanics, of elemental control. 

As she feebly attempted to persuade the elemental to move, via the seemingly inert rod, she felt the spot on her back --- the spot she’d been resolutely ignoring --- flare with warm energy. 

Still resolutely ignoring the source of it, she watched in awe as energy began to flow between her fingertips and the metal rod in front of her. 

She felt herself connect into the nexus, and instantly felt the crushing weight on her consciousness of a whipping, whirling fire elemental. Ven felt herself drowning in it, until she was shaken by the warmth of flame, as her fox jumped out and landed on her shoulder.
*Okay,* she thought. *Start simple*. 

“Go.”

She tried to ignore the pressure of the elemental and just think the thought, loudly, with her whole mind. She tried first to think it in an  intimidating fashion, but abandoned this quickly in favor of a needling sort of begging. 

*Can I really persuade this thing somehow? * she thought, not even noticing the surprise and relief on her companions’ faces as the Morning Zephyr began sliding forward through the sky. 
