# Chapter 4

"I have one of those guys tied up out there,” Jab said, once Ven seemed to have gotten the hang of at least pointing the nose up and pushing the craft forward. 

Brim, thinking straight for what seemed like the first time in minutes, considered the situation.

“I saw one of them destroying an important looking furnace thing down in the hold,” she responded. “I think it’s important to the ship somehow. Maybe you and Snipe can talk to the tied-up guy and I can go down there and see if I can fix it?” 

She saw Snipe give a terse nod, and deduced that he had a bit more experience interrogating individuals than Jab. 

Before stepping out of the cockpit, Brim turned to Ven, who was laser focused on her hands in front of her. She wanted to say a word of encouragement, but worried about breaking her concentration. Instead, she turned to the fox — close enough, she reckoned. 

“Good job!” she said, flashing a thumbs up. The fox gave a small chirp in return and returned its attention to Ven. 
	
Feeling rather special, Brim made her way through the trap door and down into the cargo hold. The place was a wreck, with destroyed crates laying about, contents spewed across the floor, and even the occasional hole in the hull. 

At least we’re not underwater! She thought, idly, as she made her way to the center of the room where a large, stone furnace sat, seemingly inert. 

She peered around it, eventually dipping into her magic to sense any magical aura it might possess. It didn’t take long for her to piece together that this thing --- which had a table attached to it that seemed to be stocked with boxes of inky-dark dragonshards --- powered the nexus that connected the pilot to the elemental, and which kept the elemental bound to the ship. 

It also looked significantly damaged. Inside the engine, Brim could see cracks and breaks cutting across the inset troughs and lines of arcane energy. She recognized the channels from her time out on the beam. 

Shuddering slightly, she attempted to mend it the same way she did the ring. Nothing. She pushed harder, but while her mending seemed to push some of the stone into place, she could feel, somewhere on an arcane plane, that the underlying object, or at least the enchantment on it, remained broken. 

It was at this point that a conversation she’d had with the rather unwilling captain the day she arrived pushed through the adrenaline of the fight. 

“The airships are constructed by both House Cannith and the Zil gnomes,” Hass had said. “They’re the only ones who can construct and repair ‘em, but Lyrandar are the only ones who can fly the thrice damned things. So they get all the glory.” 

Brim frowned at the nexus engine. She wasn’t a member of House Cannith, nor was she a gnome, obviously. 

Almost out of spite, she reached forward a hand into the seemingly inert forge, and looked at her forearm, where the new, red and black symbol pulsed slowly. 

Maybe this mark can fool it, she thought, half joking. But when she attempted to pull energy from the mark, rather than the wellspring deep within her chest, she felt it flow easily, like water over smooth rocks, through her fingertips and into the forge. 

Brim could feel her own energy draining — almost alarmingly fast — but she was spellbound by the blueish, almost healing energy that was extending from each fingertip and spreading out into all the cracks and channels of the engine. 

Moments later, it hummed to life, the channels glowing blue the way they had out on the beam. Brim, grinning in her success, felt a wave of dizziness overcome her. 

*Yikes!* She thought. *I hope this doesn’t happen every time.* Then she dropped, unceremoniously, to the ground, stars dancing in her vision. 

-----

The man --- revealed as such once his balaclava had been removed --- spat at Jab’s feet. 

“I tell you nothing,” he said in a thick accent Snipe assumed was Karrnathi. 

“Actually, you’ve already told us quite a bit,” Snipe responded, pacing the deck near the tied up attacker. 

“You told us one of your friend’s names, down in the hold — Aja, was it? And you even mentioned the name of whatever it is you were here to steal. So let me ask you this: what’s a dragonseye?” 

The figure stared at him defiantly for several moments, before eyeing his Snipe’s rapier and slowly sounding out

“My name... is S’barin,” he said, answering what was evidently an easier question. 

“Great!” Jab responded brightly. “So S’barn. I have 2 questions. One. Do you know what happened to us? With the big explosion from the thing you dropped? And two. Do you desire to learn the secrets of heredity and aging concealed from the Warforged race---”

Snipe placed a gentle hand out, cutting Jab off. 

“Start with the first one,” he said. 

S’barin grinned. 

“It seems you all experienced dragonseye, saw the power. You don’t need me to tell you what it does.” 

He looked over to Jab, still pantsless,  and gestured over at the dragonmark on his quad. 

“I have not seen one on a Warforged,” he continued. “But it would appear we are brothers. Welcome to the family.”

Snipe felt a wave of unease wash through him. 

*So my hunch was correct,* he thought.* We’ve somehow been...granted aberrant dragonmarks.* 

“Who do you work for,” Snipe asked, trying his best to hide the slight quiver in his voice. Aberrant mark-bearers were not treated kindly in most of Khorvaire. 

“Now this I cannot say,” S’barin replied, tugging slightly at the ropes. “I have my oaths, as I’m sure you have yours.” 

Snipe waved to Jab and took a few steps away from their prisoner. 

“I don’t think he’s going to say much,” Snipe whispered. “We could probably break a grunt or hired help, but this guy seems to be a team leader and deeply embedded in whatever’s going on.” 

“Are you sure?” Jab responded. “He seems pretty friendly, all things considered.”

Snipe gave a short laugh. 

“People often turn friendly when it’s their life on the line. If he weren’t in those ropes, I think it’d be a different story. Speaking of, where did you learn to tie up prisoners?” 

“I didn’t!” Jab responded. “I just wrapped it around and tied it a few times.” 

It was at this point that Snip and Jab looked, simultaneously, back over to the suspiciously quiet prisoner, and saw the coil of rope on the deck and the shadow of his form rolling over the edge of the ship. 

“Dolurrh!” Snipe exclaimed, sprinting over to the edge of the deck and peering over. Rapidly descending toward the trees, S’barin gave him a congenial wave. 

Snipe considered shooting a crossbow bolt down at him, then sighed. He heard Jab come up next to him. 

“Whoops. Yeah, I guess my knot-tying wasn’t amazing. But like you said, he wasn’t going to say anything more right?” 

“Right…” Snipe winced. “But we’re about to enter Sharn on a half-destroyed airship littered with dead bodies. I’m not sure I trust in the city’s authorities to ascertain that it wasn’t us who carried out this massacre.” 

“Oh...” 

Turning away from the edge of the ship, Snipe began formulating plans. 

*Could I jump from the ship into the city before we dock?* he mused, quickly scrapping the idea. *How do I get off this damned ship...*

The next few hours passed by in a haze. Brim spent most of it mending small elements of the ship as best she could --- especially elements of the nexus. Anything to make Ven’s flying attempts easier. Snipe, still grinding through plans for his next steps, took on the task of moving and arranging the bodies onto the forward deck of the ship, covering them with some tarp. Jab mostly kept Ven company in the cockpit. Secretly, she was thankful for the chattering. 