# Chapter 5

*The scale of the City of Towers is staggering. Built within an abnormally large manifest zone linked to the outer plane of Syriana, the city stretches skyward with an audacity that defies both gravity and even the most powerful magic.* 

*Buoyed by the levitational nudge of the plane of endless skies, Sharn begins, at its base, with five massive, cloistered towers, each filling to the brim one of five closely separated mesas. These are the lower city, and they rise like massive supports more than three thousand feet before their flat tops are requisitioned for the building of Middle Sharn.*

*Here, the five towers, (roughly matching the mesa widths below) divide into five to ten towers each, all built on the foundation of the lower city. Where almost all of the lower city is indoors, here, the first outdoor thoroughfares connect the main towers and cross the gaps between the mesas via massive bridges.*

*Even these five to ten towers can scarcely be called “buildings” --- they are wider in radius than many villages, shooting upward another thousand feet with ease, with uncountable balconies and bridges interconnecting different towers. These towers then top out as well, and upon them is built the Upper City.*

*Here, finally, the towers created can be described as buildings, with ten to several hundred of these more narrow structures crowding each base like stalagmites, interconnected by bridges and platforms and impossibly wide terrace.*

-----

As the sun began to set below the Brelish horizon, casting long, bloodred rays across the treetops of the King’s forest below, Ven, still standing at the helm of the Zephyr, just began to make out what appeared to be a lone, singular mountain dead ahead to the south. As they drew nearer, that mountain revealed itself as not a mountain, but rather a massive, raised stone mesa, and from it, in turn, rose the city of towers.

As the Morning Zephyr limped its way toward the shining city, the evening light filtering through the thousands of buildings, reflecting and refracting through the smoke of food being prepared and workshops operating at full steam, Brim and Jab stood utterly transfixed at the forward bow. Sharn had that effect on people. 

Snipe was fairly used to the sight of the city; he’d grown up here, and it remained his primary home, though he was rarely there. Still, he had to admit that the sight of the city from altitude, in the airship, took his breath away a little bit. 

Ven tried her best not to look at the city, focusing her energy on the elemental. It had grown easier over time — So far, she’d needed no commands other than “Go.” She didn’t have to command it constantly, either. Once the elemental complied, it generally continued to for some time. Whenever she felt it grow restless and begin trying to burn wildly in new directions, she reiterated the command. She was exceedingly thankful the weather remained beautiful and calm.

The ship itself remained in a state of constant descent, due to the amount of soarwood that had been lost,  but Jab, Brim, and Snipe had managed to jury-rig several of the airfoils to give the nose a positive pitch attitude. Just barely, the forward acceleration from the elemental was enough to keep them airborne. 
She shuddered to think about the prospects of docking the ship in Sharn, laughing grimly at the knowledge that if she accidentally crashed into Lyrandar tower, her family would probably not be surprised. They all thought she hated them. 
	
*It would be quite the entrance*, she thought, affording herself a short, barking laugh. *So, mother, you wanted to see me?* 
	
Ven could smell the sweet, savory scents of the city reach her nose as they began flying over the tops of the buildings in the Northedge quarter. It had always amazed her that a city of this size didn’t smell awful — the power of a million prestidigitations being cast throughout the day. 

Only a few minutes later, Ven saw the telltale set of towers rising from the Central Plateau into the Upper City. Dragon Towers — the enclaves of the dragonmarked houses in the city. And rising taller than the rest was Lyrander tower. 

Though she had called this place home for the first decade or two of her life, it looked almost unrecognizable from the cockpit of the Zephyr. The top quarter of the tower had all been built in the decade she’d been gone, presumably to facilitate the docking and furnishing of airships. 

She could see that there were five docks, each a Y-shaped set of platforms extending from the tower in a pentagonal configuration. It seemed clear the nose of the ship was meant to nestle into the “v” of the dock — Ven realized the structure was meant to allow access to the ship without interfering with the elemental ring. 

There were several open docks; Ven had no clue which was their agreed-upon berth. The ship’s sending stone was mounted in the console just next to her, but without a Zil communicator it was useless. She’d even taken a moment to try to use it, but her newfound powers did not seem to extend that far. 

Shrugging, she aimed for the dock closest to their angle of approach, and settled in to try a new set of commands with the elemental. 

“Slow,” she commanded. 

Nothing happened, and Ven almost immediately realized that stopping this ship was going to be considerably harder than getting it going. 

*Elementals want nothing more than to burn hard and wild,* she thought, remembering the line from some academic text she’d read as a child. 

She growled, and tried again. 

“STOP,” she commanded, as they were now less than a hundred feet from the dock. “STOP.” 

She felt herself breaking through, and after a small petulant flare from the ring, the forward push on the ship ceased. Carried forward by its own moderate momentum, the ship coasted into the “v” of the dock. 
	
Her timing had not been great. She watched helplessly through the windows as dock hands, waiting expectantly for a smooth, clean stop, dived out of the way as the front of the ship smashed into the dock. 

It wasn’t a terrible collision --- damage was done to both the dock and ship, certainly, but both survived relatively intact. Ven suspected the dock had some kind of protective enchantment on it for precisely these types of situations. 

Breathing for what felt like the first time in hours, she dropped her hands to her side, relinquishing control of the vessel. She could see through the windows that the dockhands were now, in some righteous anger, tying up the ship using lines tossed down by Jab and Brim, and dealing with the confusion of the ship immediately beginning to sink down below the dock. 

Ven walked out onto the deck, joining the others as she heard Jab calling down, 

“We have some lift issues, so please get this ship tied before we slip down into the city!” 
	
Ven watched silently, willing her hands — which had begun shaking rather violently after she released the tension of piloting — to still. She closed her eyes, until she felt a tap on her shoulder. 

“We’ve got a gangplank,” Brim said, softly, as she opened her eyes. “You did a great job flying the ship, by the way! I was super impressed.” Ven swallowed and nodded, and felt a small bit of warmth flow to her through Brim’s smile. 

*That girl is really something*, she thought.* I wonder if I used to be that... hopeful.* 

Taking Brim’s hand, she was boosted up onto the gangplank that had been set up to the dock. Trying not to look down, she stepped carefully across it and set foot, for the first time in a decade, back in Sharn. 
	
“Sovereign’s above! Ven, is that you? What in Eberron are you doing on a transport ship?” 

Ven looked up at the voice, recognition already dawning on her. Standing on the dock, surrounded by Lyrandar aides and guards, was Mia Toradin d’Lyrandar: sorcerer of storms, personal assistant to Solia Selavir, and, once, Ven’s closest friend beyond her brother. 
“Mia?” Ven tried to respond, finding herself at a loss for words. The woman, several years older than Ven and now rocking distinctly silver hair, threw her arms around her. 

“We weren’t expecting you for another week!” she said into Ven’s shoulders. The soft lilt of her voice washed over Ven like a warm blanket. “Let me look at you.” 

Mia held Ven out at arms-length, her eyes — which were a glowing, golden hazel and had always been wise beyond their years — appraised Ven with an efficiency that Ven knew marked her usefulness to the house. She felt momentarily naked, stripped of any armor as the woman peered into the decade of her life she’d missed.

Whatever it is she saw in Ven, she only cupped a hand to her cheek and smiled sadly, before turning to face them all as a group. 

“Right,” she began. “So I’m up here on the docks because this transport vessel —she looked down at a register in her hand — the *Morning Zephyr* --- was supposed to arrive more than an hour ago. But instead, I began hearing reports from the Brelish countryside about an airship half exploding and going up in flames not a hundred leagues out from Sharn.”

She looked, keenly, at the Zephyr, making quick note of the holes and scorch marks. 

“I’ll wager a galifar and a half that those reports were referring to you all. As you’re the only ones who disembarked the ship, which, mind, was not registered to be carrying any passengers, I can only assume that something quite terrible has transpired.” 

Mia turned to look at Ven, continuing to address the group. “Solia put in an order to hold off the Sharn Watch until I’d assessed the situation, and made sure there’s no House interests at risk. They’re currently downstairs, being treated to tea and biscuits, but we haven’t much time before they come poking around. I’d appreciate it greatly if you could accompany me into the tower and fill me in on --- she gestured lightly at the ship, which in its damaged state strained at the ropes now holding it up — all of this.” 


The group followed Mia down the dock and into the main terminal at the top of Lyrandar tower. Even Ven found herself looking around in slight awe. Far above them, a massive dome, painted with an intricate fresco of a golden sunset sky that undulated with illusion magic to make the painted clouds — and Lyrandar ships that floated through them — appear to drift across the dome. 

Along the walls of the cylindrical chamber, between the five arched openings that led out onto the docks, were small inset cubbies within which were parked small carts that sizzled aromatically as a lucky few street merchants prepared and hawked food to the waiting passengers. 

Mia led the group through one of the waiting areas, where nice sets of chairs were laid out for the select members of society who could afford airship travel, toward a large, grand, spiraling staircase leading down to a lower level of the tower.  

They emerged into a large, fairly sleek room that appeared to be the front office of the enclave. Half-elves, dressed in Lyrandar’s blues, yellows, and greens, moved with purpose around the chamber, disappearing into doors spread around the sides. Civilians, some clearly travellers with trunks, others simply there on unrelated business, milled about before a set of large wooden desks where they were helped by waiting members of the House. 

“This way,” Mia said, opening a small, nondescript door with a small wave of her hand. They entered a long, curving hallway — shockingly bare and functional compared to the public facing halls outside. 

Ven remembered these halls; unlike those out in the center of the tower, these private corridors were where her and Jaresh first roamed free, before they escalated to sneaking out of the tower and into Sharn proper. 
	
With a final wave of a hand, Mia led them into a small, functional office. A clean wooden desk separated the halves of the room, behind it rested a rather uncomfortable looking chair. Behind that, a window looked out over the Central Plateau, as the twinkle of everlight lanterns in the post-sunset towers filtered into the room. Ven noticed the two simple bookshelves flanking the windows were filled with some rather advanced books on sorcery. 

There were only two seats on the near side of the desk. Ven and Brim sat down, Jab and Snipe hovering over their shoulders. Ven could feel the tension in Snipe’s muscles from where she sat — the man clearly wanted out of this place. 

“So,” Mia said. “What can you tell me about this airship incident?” 

Ven shot a look back at Snipe. 

*How much should we say,* she wondered. She knew he was the most likely to tell a highly censored version of events. 

“I think it’d be best if Snipe here laid it out. He had a good view of what happened,” she said. 

Ven saw Jab almost say something, then hold back, as Snipe began to speak.

“Pretty simple actually,” he said, too nonchalantly. “Another airship emerged from above and dropped some attackers onto our ship. They were powerful magic users --- made quick work of the crew, we just about survived. Mostly because we spent less time fighting them and more time trying to put out fires and repair damage to the ship, keep us in the air, you know?” 

Mia nodded thoughtfully.

“I don’t think anyone can deny your ship was attacked,” she responded. “Do you know what they were after?” 

Snipe paused, before replying measuredly, 

“No. As I said, they didn’t really concern themselves with us. And as you mentioned before, we were just last minute, off the books passengers. If there was anything valuable in that cargo hold, we wouldn’t know what it is.” 

-----

Jab found himself in a deep state of confusion. The overwhelming, mind-numbing scale of Sharn’s towers notwithstanding, the final moments of their journey had seen Snipe demand he find pants to wear to cover his mark, introduced him to a mage that Ven seemed to already know, and now, Snipe was lying to this woman about what happened on the airship. 

He could sense, innately, that this all revolved around the marks. For some reason, Snipe — and Ven too, he realized — felt that it was in their interests not to share that particular piece of the story with Mia. Even though Ven seemed to be close to her? 

As Mia and Snipe traded information, Ven occasionally stepping in with clarifications, Jab turned to Brim and tried his best to look quizzical. 

She seemed to get it. She raised an eyebrow at him and gave a small shrug, seemingly content to let the other two handle whatever half-truth story was being weaved. 

“... the pilot hung on, bravely, till we were over the city,” Ven was finishing, not sounding entirely convinced herself. “I took over then. Of course, I don’t have a mark, but I was able to push just enough to get us onto a course with the tower.” 

Mia nodded. “It has been reported that non-stormmarked individuals have on occasion been able to take command of an airship, at least briefly... It takes a powerful degree of mental fortitude, you should be impressed.” Brim saw Mia looking at Ven carefully. It was a look her own mother, Obsidian, had given her, from time to time. Like a disbelief that she was growing up. 

“Well,  a Lyrandar pilot murdered is certainly a big deal,” she continued. “This is quite the story. First and foremost, I’m glad you all are safe. And thanks to all of you,” she said, gesturing to Brim, Jab, and Snipe, “for helping keep Ven safe. I wouldn’t want to lose her…” 

It passed in an instant, but Brim clocked the catch in Mia’s throat, an unspoken “again” hovering at the end of the sentence. 

Mia stood up abruptly.

“I’m afraid the Watch has made it clear that they shall be delayed no longer. I’m told they have seen the ship, and wish now to speak to you.” 

She leaned in, and spoke again in a low voice.

“Tell them nothing you did not tell me... and in fact, feel free not to tell them all you told me. The Watch is not… the body I would trust with the solving of this particular crime.” And with that, she swept out of the room. 

Jab heard Brim let out a long breath. Seizing his chance, he turned to Snipe and Ven and said 

“Hey, how come you didn’t tell Mia about what actually happened?” 

Snipe seemed to jump, glancing nervously around the room, until Ven said

“Don’t worry. I guarantee it is in Mia’s best interests to keep any divination or scrying out of this chamber.” 

Snipe nodded, but still looked marginally on edge. Ven continued, 

“Jab, I didn’t want to lie to Mia. I’m sure you all noticed that we have some history together. I guess it’s time to say that I never gave you my last name... but formally, it’s Lyrandar.” 

“Woahhhh,” Jab said, as Brim whistled. “Is that why you could fly the ship?” 

Ven shrugged. 

“Anyways,” she continued, “There’s a lot at play here that we don’t understand. Mia is a good person, but the House, as an institution... let’s just say they wouldn’t hesitate to sacrifice you, or me, or any of us, to protect a family secret.”

Ven reached into her pack, and pulled out a small, black ledger.

“I found this on the captain. It’s a log of all the Morning Zephyr’s trips, and what he was carrying. It was super meticulous. This trip... it’s not in here.” 

As Snipe took the book and began looking it over, Brim offered, 

“Well maybe he adds his trips after they’re completed?” 

“Yeah, maybe,” Ven said. “But I don’t know. Something feels wrong to me. Everything that happened --- that was powerful magic they were using. Almost nothing would be worth an all out attack in broad daylight like that. But that thing...” she trailed off. 

“It’s clearly extremely dangerous. Who was it being brought here for? If it’s Lyrandar, we could all be in grave danger if we admit that we saw or interacted with it.” 
	
Jab spent a moment processing this. Ven was clearly a naturally suspicious person — he knew that from the moment he introduced himself to her. But there was a nugget of truth to what she was saying, even if, as she said, none of them knew how yet. 

“All I’m saying,” she said, finishing as the sound of footsteps approached down the marble hallway, “is that we keep some cards in our hand for now.” 

The analogy sat well with him. 

*Alright,* he thought.* We’re not lying, we’re just delaying the truth until we know who we can trust. ...Man, Sharn’s a strange place.*
	
-----

“Brim, I think you should tell the story this time,” Ven said, as Brim felt a small shock of surprise hit her. 
	
“Me?” she said, looking sharply at Snipe. “Do I... remember well enough?” she asked pointedly. 

“I’m sure you do,” Ven replied. “My voice is tired.” 

Brim turned and looked at the two figures standing in front of them. One, a dwarf roughly half her height, had jumped up onto Mia’s chair and was now looking at them at roughly eye level. 

“I’m Detective Sblamtham,” he had said, prompting a slight giggle from Brim that he stared into silence with daggers. “And this is my partner, Oneed. We have some questions for you.” 

Brim reiterated the group’s adopted story as best she could, sidestepping the more challenging questions with a cascade of “I was on fire at that point” and “It was hard to see through the smoke” responses.

The detective was clearly unsatisfied, but eventually Mia re-entered the room and informed him that Lyrandar tower was closing, and they would have to return the next day if they wanted to further question these guests of the house. Brim noticed a very pointed edge to that “guest of the house" line, and began to slowly catch a glimpse of the complexity of politics and jurisdictions at play in this city. 

As Sblamtham left the room, Oneed reached out a hand to shake hers, with a formal 

“Thank you for your time. Please stay in the city so we can reach you with any further questions.” 

Pulling his hand away, Brim felt the rough sensation of paper against her skin, and looked down to see a small, handwritten note left behind in her palm. 	