# Chapter 7


Merrix d'Cannith. Patriarch of the Cannith House. Ven couldn’t quite believe it. She hadn’t even seen Esravash, her own matriarch, much less had a one on one meeting with her in a private library. What could the leader of a dragonmarked house possibly want with them? 

“It uh, seems like you already know our names,” she responded, haltingly. 

Merrix laughed softly.

“Yes, this is true. You have every right to suspicion, and I’m sorry for what I’m sure feels like an intrusion into your private lives. But there is a delicate situation at hand, and I exercised my network to get a handle on any relevant situation as quickly as I could. Please, sit,” he said, gesturing to several of the sofas. ``I have some explaining to do.”

“I’ll stand,” came the quiet call from Snipe. Ven wasn’t surprised. She felt on-edge as well, but forced herself into one of the seats, trying to sit near enough the edge that it didn’t envelop her. 

“Right,” Merrix said. “I suppose I should start by telling you that the final passenger on your airship journey was my man. He was there to protect the item that you, unfortunately, saw stolen. He survived, by the way — he was thrown overboard near the end of the scuffle but had enough magic to spare himself a deadly landing in the forest below. 

“That was when I first learned of your names, your actions aboard the ship, and the fact that you all — Zoresh, my man, included — were hit by the... effect, of the device you saw. Zoresh sent me a message to warn me of the incoming storm. 

“Which, I should say. The device was mine, and I’m terribly sorry for what befell you aboard the ship. I had attempted to avoid such a possibility, by paying the Zephyr’s captain a large sum of money to not take on any passengers during the voyage. Alas, he did not quite recognize the danger of what he was transporting. 

“Why...” Ven tried to formulate the question without being offensive. “Why were you bringing such a dangerous thing to Sharn?”

Merrix sighed, and for a moment held his fingertips to the bridge of his nose, putting pressure on what might be a headache. 

“It was a risk,” he admitted. “But one I thought I had to make. You see, that device has the power to revolutionize our world. Let me back up, for a moment. 

“You all know of the Mourning,” he began, and Ven shivered, the sting of the Mourning’s mists pricking against her skin, the coughing of smoke from flameless fire in her lungs, the sight of her husband slipping into the mists as she was dragged out by his father. The entire nation of Cyre wiped out in hours, to remain shrouded in deadly, aberrant mists seemingly for all time.

“Metrol was not, of course, just the capital of Cyre,” Merrix continued, “but was the true enclave of House Cannith. We lost not only our Patriarch, any many elders of the House that day. We lost our creation forges, and the vast majority of our workshops and the intellectual progress that had been made therein.

At this, he turned to Jab.

“We were... working on things that may have even changed the way those like you live.” 

Ven turned aside to Jab to try to clock his reaction, but his metallic, unmoving face revealed nothing. *What must it be like to actually meet your creator?* She thought. She reckoned she wouldn’t want to. Not like this anyway. 

“Alas, after the tragedy struck, rather than come together, House Cannith split at the seams, and now my cousins and I vie for control. That is not of interest to you, but may help explain my actions. You see, the mists of the Mournland are not impassible, not completely. Dangerous, yes. Incredibly so. But those talented and brave enough can survive, at least for a while. And if we could recover anything from our laboratories and forges... it could save our house.”

Ven nodded slowly, putting the pieces together in her head. 

Cannith was a house of making, of artificing. They had always had a stranglehold on the efficient production of general goods. And more recently, they were instrumental to the creation of both the Lightning Rail trains and the airships... but while they could build both, they couldn’t operate them. Not without House Orien, or House Lyrandar. Their only invention that required no other house was the Warforged. And now... she glanced at Jab again. Well now, thanks to the Treaty of Thronehold, no new Warforged could be created. That had always seemed right to her before — in a post war world.

It only occurred to Ven at this moment that this meant the Warforged were an endangered --- no, dying --- species, from the moment of their independence. She felt a pang of regret for not listening to his cheerful pitch about mortality and reproduction more carefully. She was lost in this thought as Snipe spoke up.

“So you sent a team into the Mournland.” It wasn’t a question.

“Teams,” Merrix corrected. “But yes. And those that survived recovered a great many plans and technologies that will keep our house from imploding. But they also discovered something else. What do you all know of dragonshards?”

This time it was Brim who spoke up.

“They’re crystals, right?” she said. “I saw some inky, dark ones in the airship we were on. Those are Khyber shards. And there are two others — Eberron and Siberys. They power arcane things.” 

“Very good,” Merrix replied with a smile. “Yes, each shard has its own unique use; Eberron shards for artificing, Khyber shards for binding, Siberys shards for enhancing the powers of dragonmarks. 

“As of four years ago, there exists a new type of dragonshard. They were discovered in Cannith labs by my extraction teams. We’ve deemed them Mournshards. Whatever their original type, the Mournland seems to... modify them into something altogether new. I set up a lab, just outside of Starilaskur, and sent some of my best artificers to investigate the properties of these shards.” 

Ven almost had to laugh. After years of running from the politics of the dragonmarked houses, it turned out she was poulticing wounds in New Cyre mere leagues from a secret Cannith lab pushing the boundaries of reality.

“It was immediately apparent that these shards contained immense amounts of power. I do not mean this lightly when I say that one device, the size of the prototype you saw, could power all the arcane effects happening in a full district of Sharn.” 

Ven couldn’t help but gasp slightly. It took hundreds of magewrights to maintain and power the everbright lanterns, signs, and other arcane processes that kept the city in operation. Could that tiny thing really run all that? 

Merrix seemed to read her incredulity. 

“I know, an unfathomable thought,” he continued. “But I can assure you, very real. With one problem. No matter what we tried, we could not stabilize the power of the Mournshards. That device was the closest my artificers got, but clearly, it was not enough. It is not yet under control. And there is only one laboratory in the world with the resources, and people, capable of solving this puzzle. And it’s here in Sharn.”

“Ah,” Snipe said, with more impunity than Ven would advise, “so you reckoned that if you could figure out how to safely use the Mournshards, it would ensure you control as Cannith Patriarch, put your cousins in their place, and restore your House to its former glory. And all it would risk is, I don’t know, the lives of a whole district of this city?”

There was a long, echoing silence. Ven clutched her fingers into her arm reflexively. She had no idea what Merrix’s actual magical abilities were, though she’d heard they were extensive. But that barely mattered. The power that radiated from him --- of money, of influence --- that was enough to make her wince at Snipe’s challenge. 

But Merrix only sighed. 

“I appreciate your care for this city,” he said. “I care for it too. And bringing in a device that we knew... seemed to somehow cause those near it to express aberrant dragonmarks...”

Ven felt her heart pounding in her ears.* So it’s true,* she thought. You can’t run anymore.* You have a mark now. Just... an awful one.*

“... was absolutely a risk. I could try to defend my choice — try to tell you our lab was deep, deep in the cogs of the city, and well protected, that the risk would be minimal. 

``But I won’t. Because reality has proved that claim a falsehood. The device has now been stolen by a dangerous terrorist organization, and I believe they intend to use it to cause great harm to this city. And I believe they will hunt you down as well. 

“Wait, what?” 

That was Brim breaking in. “How do you know it’s a terrorist group? What do they want with us?”

“Loose ends,” Snipe growled for the second time that day. Merrix nodded with him.

“Yes,” he said. “Did any of you notice aberrant marks, or red-tinged eyes on your attackers? Zoresh indicated as much. It leads me to believe that House Tarkanan is behind this. They’re not a true dragonmarked house — simply a criminal gang that welcomes aberrant marked individuals with open arms and trains them to be assassins and thieves. Somehow, they discovered the nature of what this Mournshard device could do—”

“They named it!” Brim said. “They called it the dragonseye!” 

Merrix rubbed the greying hair of his short-trimmed beard. 

“Right… even more reason to believe this attack was planned with the full knowledge of what was onboard. And that brings me to why I called you here.” 

Merrix looked at them all, one by one. At her turn, Ven felt his piercing gaze, his grey eyes, always ascertaining, calculating, bore into her, and she knew then just how much power — magic or otherwise — he wielded. 

“Zoresh broke his leg in the fall from the ship. But he told me that he felt... a pull. A connection to the device, after it went off. And that was how he knew they were heading toward the city. 

“He’s stuck out in the King’s wood. It’s going to take him hours, if not days, to arrange transport to Sharn, and his leg needs Jorasco healing. I fear we do not have this sort of time. House Tarkanan could attack at any moment, and if they unleash this device upon the city, the results would be catastrophic. 

“You all were similarly affected. If you can get close enough, you might be able to sense the presence of the device. You’re our best hope of getting it back before something truly terrible happens.”

With the ask finally made, a long silence hung over the room, broken only by the continuous crackle of the fire. Ven glanced nervously at the others, and all were exchanging unsure glances.

“How about some whiskey, then?” Merrix said, finally, to break the silence. “I have some fine Lhazaaran vintages here.” 

He stood, and walked to a table that was indeed burdened with many bottles of liquor. He poured several glasses, bringing them back to the table where they sat. 

“Snipe,” he said, setting them down. “You look like the negotiating type. I recognize I’m in a weak position here. You have little incentive to help me after what I’ve, indirectly, caused you. An appeal to the greater good is lovely, but does not have much moving power in this world. So I offer the following, in both recompense for the suffering I’ve caused you, and for this task I’ve laid out:

“One: lodgings in an apartment in the safest part of Northedge. Yours until the job is complete. Bodyguards at the premises if you wish to have them. Two: compensation in the amount of two thousand galifars upon the recovery of the device, and 50 galifars per person in daily stipend, to grease any wheels or furnish any tasks that need doing along the way. Three: access to any person or place you may personally wish to see in the city, no questions asked.”

At this, Snipe, Brim, and Ven simultaneously reached for their whiskey. Two thousand galifars was a lot of money. Retirement money. 

“Do you know of a company called Khorvwares?” Brim asked, seemingly out of the blue. 

Merrix thought for a moment, before nodding.

“Yes. Subsidiary of a larger company, not Cannith directly but they pay us for our seal of quality on their products. Mostly household items, basic weapons, et cetera. Why?”

Brim paused before answering, slowly, 

“Could you set up a meeting for me with their owner? Whoever runs it.”

Merrix nodded, “Yes, Brim, of course. I’ll not pry, but whatever you may wish to say to... Peter, I believe is his name, I can make such a meeting happen.” 

Ven watched Brim nod in satisfaction, curious herself about what the tall blue Firbolg wanted with a goods manufacturing company. It was at this point that Merrix turned his gaze to her.

“Venizia,” he said. “It did not bring me any small trepidation to know you were of House Lyrandar. Our houses have been allies and partners for years, but the situation is, shall we say, ever delicate. I considered carefully whether sharing this information with you, and the leverage you could gain for your house by sharing it with them, was too great a risk. I decided ultimately the safety of the city was more important. I can only ask and trust that you maintain some discretion in this assignment, whether you choose to accept it. Nothing more.”

Ven shrugged. 

“I have no vested interest in Lyrandar’s business,” she said. 

Merrix gave her an appraising look, but didn’t push any further. Sensing the group’s apprehension, he then excused himself, saying 

“I must go retrieve Alain — please, discuss my proposal, and anything you may wish to know or counter propose, in the meantime.”

As Merrix d’Cannith’s footsteps receded into the distance, the group looked at each other with wide eyes. 
“Damn,” said Snipe, softly.

“Damn,” Ven replied in agreement.

----- 

The apartment was nice — quiet — tucked away into a corner of Upper Northedge where the neighbors were all very clearly used to asking no questions. They’d refused the offer of security (“What, they’d just be spies for Merrix,” Snipe claimed), and Jab had immediately made off with his first 50 galifars of operating stipend to buy ingredients for food, since the apartment had a kitchen. Alain had handed them each their first installment in small leather pouches, but informed them they’d have to stop by a Kundarak bank each day to retrieve the continuing payments. He provided an account number. 

After Jab returned, the four sat at the table of the space’s small dining room, in comparable silence. 

“So… I guess we’re hunting this thing down,” said Snipe, after a long moment. 

“I guess we are,” Ven replied. Seared into the foreground of her mind was a parting word from Merrix, when he’d pulled her briefly aside during their exit. 

``I know what this mark may mean for you," he’d said. "For all of you, but especially you. I can’t make any promises... but I might know someone who may be able to help you... remove it."

She could still feel the low throbbing in her shoulder where her new mark was, though she was still resolutely ignoring it.  She was broken from her thoughts as Brim responded to Snipe with a more pragmatic question.

“So, are we starting at the university?” Merrix, for all his information gathering, didn’t know from where House Tarkanan was operating. But he did know of a professor at Morgrave University who often bought and sold illicit artifacts across Sharn’s underbelly, and Merrix reckoned he might have some useful information for them. 

Alas, they were forbidden from name dropping Merrix at all — he would provide them money a plenty, but nothing to aid their search that could be traced back to him. 

“I think that’s wise,” Ven replied. “Before we go sticking our noses in Daask or other Boromar territory, might as well start somewhere relatively safe.” 

“Do you think the university would have any books about the uh, marks we got?” Jab asked, breaking the group’s standing silence on the topic.
	
“Maybe,” Ven replied quietly. “I’m not sure. I think whatever happened to us was... different than anything that’s ever happened before.” 

The silence hung in the air. 

----- 

“It’s so big,” Ven breathed, peering through the railing of an opposing tower at the domed rooftop of Morgrave. 
	
“Sharn holds many treasures,” responded Jaresh. “The houses care mostly about money and jewels — the businesses too — but some of the coolest treasures are kept right  in there.”

Ven took another look before she felt Jaresh’s hand squeeze her shoulder briefly. 

“We should get back before mother notices we snuck out.”

It was Jaresh’s third year living with them. Ven was 13, he was... 16? No one was exactly sure. Ven had no idea why her mothers had agreed to foster an orphan from Stormhome, but he bore the Mark of Storms, so she supposed they wanted at least two out of three children to not bring them shame. 

Not that Jaresh had any strong inclination to help them with that. Mark or no, the boy was headstrong, rebellious, and had a seemingly insatiable appetite for freedom. None of these were great qualities for a Lyrandar heir. He’d snuck out of the tower during his first week there, and told Ven he made it all the way to the Cogs below the city before Solia’s troops caught up with him. She wasn’t sure she believed it, but he’d certainly shown no trepidation as he’d ruffled her hair, put a finger to his lips, and slipped from the balcony of her room the previous evening. 
	
They made their way back across Upper Menthis to the alley they’d stowed the skycoach they’d nicked from the Lyrandar garages. Jaresh had promised to teach her to fly it, but was still pushing it off. “Soon,” he said. “When you’re a bit older.” 

Ven’s hands were shaking slightly as she gripped the gunnel of the skycoach and leaned out into the open air. They were encased in the clouds, and the wind that rushed up to meet them was stinging against her cheeks. Already it had tugged apart her haphazard braid and now her hair whipped about her face in a frenzied halo. She felt a tug around her middle and looked down to see Jaresh holding firmly onto the back of her coat.

“I’m not explaining to their Ladyships how you burned three featherfall tokens and ended up wandering around the Cogs,” he said with a laugh, his other hand resting lazily on the coach’s wheel. 

He never did teach her to fly. Two years later, he’d disappeared without a trace. No note, no clue to where he was going. Ven chose to believe he was off in the Lhazaar Principalities, hanging from the side of a sky pirate ship, like the stories he was always dreamily recounting as they snuck around Sharn. As for flying skycoaches, she taught herself.
