# Chapter 8 


Jab slipped from the apartment before the sun rose. He needed only four hours of dedicated rest per night, and had ensured his companions were fast asleep before he departed. Ven seemed to be in the throes of a minor nightmare. 

He wasn’t sure exactly what he was looking for. His mission was… somewhat vague, if he was being honest with himself. As he walked through Northedge, he scanned the pamphlet he’d been given, laden with the best arguments and phrases to rally other warforged to the cause. What was the cause, exactly? That was for the Mothers to know. But Jab had faith it involved the forging of a path to survival, to reproduction, for their species.

He wondered if the Mothers had ever met Merrix d’Cannith, the man in a large way responsible for the creation of the Warforged. He didn’t particularly feel like he owed Merrix anything. Since the war ended, Warforged were free to pursue their own paths. No one exactly knew what to do with them, but he knew for sure that the Treaty of Thronehold’s stance on banning any new Warforged from being made wasn’t fair.

Jab made his way in fits and spurts through the city, latching onto major landmarks and generally making his passage downward toward the lower city. When he’d taken the assignment to go to Sharn, he’d been told about a district called Tavick’s Landing, where travelers tended to arrive and, at least for a while, live. 

The lightning rail run by House Orien arrived at Lower Tavick’s, hence its status as a hub for travellers. Even with the massive arcane elevators and wide thoroughfare bridges, it took him the better part of two hours to navigate around to the district. He supposed a skycoach would’ve been faster, but several earnest attempts to flag one down had failed rather miserably. 
	
Lower Tavick’s was as crowded and bustling as the university district in Upper Menthis had been, but the vibe was distinctly different. Those moving through the crowds here had not the excitement of attractions and events, but ranged from threadbare, resolute motions to decrepit, half-shorn dreams. Many carried bottles of some libation or another, and evidently drinking liberally of them was not bad practice within these streets. 

Jab took it all in with a quiet fascination, but his interest was in finding other Warforged. He knew many of his kind were making their way to Sharn, one of the few metropolises big enough that one could find stable work even in the face of bigotry. Hoping to snag someone who hadn’t had time to really sink into the city yet, he made his way into the massive rail station. He arrived around dawn, and while the city loomed up behind them, their position at its edge afforded a deluge of sunlight that streamed in through the glass ceilings above. 

It didn’t take long scanning the crowd before a metallic glint gave away another Warforged. As Jab approached, he saw a roving pan of their head, recognizing immediately his own procedure for searching. He’d been doing it not a moment before. 

“Looking for someone?” he asked, stepping in front of the other Warforged. Jab was just under average height by Warforged standards, but was considerably lithe of construction, lacking the generally heavy-set armor plating and heft that army-bound Warforged had been built with. His specific construction gave him considerably more acrobatic ability, though. 

It was a bit challenging to not feel intimidated as the other Warforged — the first he’d truly encountered and spoken to — looked down at him.

“Affirmative,” the warforged responded, a slight tremor sneaking through his deep rumble of a voice. “Would you happen to know the whereabouts of a Warforged named Sabre? He is meant to be in this district.” 

Jab didn’t, but he did know that from his handbook that “saying no is the close of any conversation.” So instead, he tried to pivot, putting on a cheery tone and saying

“It’s a huge district, but I’m sure Sabre will turn up – and what is your name?” 

The warforged gave him a long, impassive glance before seeming to remember themselves, squaring up their previously hunched shoulders and rising to their full height.

“I go by Lock, designation 4315B, 7th battalion of the Brelish Reds.”

Jab could see a tattered triangular patch of red cloth tied over Lock’s shoulder, with a faded insignia.  The vast majority of his kind, he knew, had served as unwilling soldiers in the war. But the war’s end and sudden freedom had left many Warforged without any direction or purpose. Many, though not all, clung to the identity they held as soldiers. 

“Well, Lock, do you desire to learn the secrets of heredity and aging concealed from the warforged race?” Jab asked, trying to segue into his speech. The soldier furrowed his brow. 

“I’m... not sure what you mean,” he replied, taking a small step back. Jab felt a thrill sweep through him nonetheless. This was the furthest he’d gotten with anyone! 

“Well,” he explained, “You’ve always been told that we as Warforged cannot procreate like those of the fleshy races. But I’m here to tell you that’s not the case!”

“I… I mostly just want to find my friend,” Lock said, uncertain. An idea crossed Jab’s mind, a dangerous one. But perhaps one that would actually work.

“You know, there are many things they say we can’t have,” he continued, trying to keep his voice even. “Like… dragonmarks?” 

He tried to gauge Lock’s reaction, but the soldier only stood impassively. After a moment, he responded.

“Affirmative… dragonmarks are inherited.” 

Jab glanced around the street, then pulled lightly on Lock’s arm to move them to a niche near the wall of the station. He then pulled up his pant leg to show the mark shimmering on his leg. 

“How...” 

Jab let his pant leg fall. 

“I think we have more to talk about. I have some friends with me in the city. If we help you find your friend Sabre, maybe we can sit down and discuss?”

The Warforged nodded tersely, questions hovering unspoken. 	

“I am staying at an inn nearby,” he said, handing Jab a slip of paper. “You can find me there.” 

Jab hummed all the way back to Northedge. 

-----

Ven awoke from the nightmare before the sun rose. The neighborhood was quiet, and as she stretched her limbs, she felt the aches and bruises of the day before. She could still just hear the sounds — of flame and mist and screams, fading with the dream.

There was a small note on the kitchen table. Jab, it seemed, had some personal business to attend to. Well, so did she. She added her own addendum to the note, and then, with some trepidation, she made her way through Northedge and over the bridgeways to Upper Central.

Dragon Towers loomed, central to the district, distinctive in their twelve-sided arrangement. She took a quick moment to marvel again at the airship docks floating high above her as she entered Lyrandar tower. 

When she was little, everyone in the tower knew who she was. From the doormen to the administrators, Venezia, Mariel, and Jaresh were easily spotted around, causing trouble and mischief. Especially when Solia (Her Ladyship, as Jaresh called her) was away on business. 

*That is, until Mariel’s mark appeared*, Ven thought, trying to push down the bitterness. She didn’t care that her sister and brother had marks; every day away from the enclave had convinced her more than anything that the houses, and everything they stood for, was in service to nothing but wealth.

Not helping people. But she still felt the needling, prickling sensation behind her eyes as memories of her mothers’ efforts and frustrations in training her had melted away into complete indifference as soon as a more gifted offspring presented herself. 
Ven wiped her eyes slightly as she approached the front desk of the public entry hall, feeling stupid. *I’m not a teenager anymore*, she thought. *I have a life, a husband. I’m a goddamned adult.*

Still, being inside the tower again wasn’t helping. 

Ven didn’t recognize the individual tasked with directing those who entered the public halls to the appropriate parts of the tower. Evidently, though, her resemblance to her mothers was not unnoticed. 

“Ms. Selavir,” the half-elf girl said politely. “Welcome back.” She instinctively moved to correct them — her taken name was Ostler — but then gave up on it with a sigh. Her mother knew, of course, but what good was it doing here. 

“Hi, thanks,” she said, shuffling. “Is Mia in?” Mia would know if Solia was in and Ven would rather have her present for the meeting. Or at least give her a pep talk first. 

“Unfortunately, both Ms. Toradin and Director Selavir are out on important business this morning,” the half-elf replied, casting her eyes down. “But they anticipated your arrival, and I’m to see that anything you need is provided.” 

Ven grimaced and nodded. She felt dirty. Years spent trundling through the Khorvarian countryside on horseback or cart, nights spent in inns, or barns, or under the open sky, hours spent patching up wounds in a refugee camp with scant resources... Ven balked at the idea of being pampered like the House scion they still seemed to see her as. 

“Right, uh, I was hoping to access the Lyrandar Library,” she said. It was only a passing chance, but she knew from her childhood sprinting through the stacks that some books on dragonmarks existed. Worth a bit of research when no one was looking. 

The half-elf nodded enthusiastically. 

“Of course! My name is Elise, by the way. I’d be happy to take you up there at once, and see to anything else you may require.” She waved over to another half-elf dressed in a Lyrandar blue-green kurta to take his place.  

“Thanks, Elise,” Ven replied, feeling a pang of guilt shoot through her. Not days ago, she’d never have talked to a servant or staff without asking their name. What was it about this place that brought out the worst in her? 

The library within Lyrandar tower was not large, and looked even smaller than she remembered as they entered. Formed of one wall of books that traced the curvature of the tower, followed by two smaller shelves matching the curve progressively inwards, the space had a cozy design. Guess it’s me that’s bigger, she thought, the low level bubbling of nostalgia giving her a slight nauseated sensation. 

“Elise, could I please trouble you for a glass of water,” she asked, as politely as possible. Elise scurried out quickly. 
	
Left alone, Ven immediately began scanning for books on dragonmarks. Her eyes searched hopefully for anything on aberrant marks, but she suspected that such a topic would be abhorrent to the sensitivities of anyone working here. The question struck her, then: *Had any dragonmarked heir ever manifested an aberrant mark, rather than their houses, before?* 

Following the lead, she grabbed several books gilded with the family crest which promised to provide histories and family trees for their exalted house. Still doubtful — if such a birth had occurred, she’d not be surprised if it was quietly swept under the rug — she began paging through the histories. 

As expected, no Lyrandar heir in recent history appeared with any notation of aberrancy. Such a child may well have been killed. 

Her search wasn’t entirely fruitless, though. In some of the oldest reaching trees, the impact of the War of the Mark became apparent — Lyrandars marked as died fighting in it, mostly. But it jogged the remembrance of the event in Ven’s mind. Abandoning the family histories, she sought out a general history of the dragonmarked houses that extended back at least 1000 years, and found one with a full chapter on the war. 

Some of it she knew — that the young, disorganized dragonmarked houses banded together to fight a set of extremely powerful, dangerous aberrants. They’d banded together under the command of Lord Halas Tarkanan, which she supposed is where this current group was taking its name. He was known as The Earthshaker, and was responsible for bringing down a large part of the city of Sharn during the war. The undercity, Ven knew, was formed of the collapsed towers that had once been Sharn. 

New to her were some of the numbers involved — she’d always been told the story as one of coming together, the houses with their helpful, but not hugely powerful marks, coming together to take on a violent monster and his minions. But here, nearly in a footnote, Ven saw that while only a few thousand dragonmarked house heirs with marks existed at the time, more than triple that number of aberrant bearers were killed during the war. Indeed, it seemed they tried to eradicate every last one. 

Ven felt another wave of nausea threaten to dislodge the water she’d just gulped down. *It was a genocide,* she thought. 

All of a sudden, the mark on her shoulder seemed to be throbbing painfully, reminding her who she now was. *Sure, several extremely powerful sorcerers had committed vast horrors*, she thought. * But the thousands of others, manifesting aberrant marks randomly, or by the most common route, parents of two different houses conceiving a child, had no choices to make in the matter. Like I don’t*.

She read the ending of the chapter holding herself as still as possible, but the writing was already on the wall. The houses won, eradicating aberrant marks from the world. They established laws banning inter-house relationships, and used their “defense” of the world from aberrants to vie for even more political and economic power. 

Of course, in the intervening centuries, they couldn’t prevent the occasional random manifestation of an aberrant mark. But if Merrix d’Cannith’s speech was anything to go by, those around today had little choice but to join a group tagged as domestic terrorists or be hunted down themselves. 

Ven had never intended to reveal her mark to her mother, but suddenly, even the specter of meeting her drove a wedge into her chest. She quietly wrote a note with her Northedge address on it and asked Elise to ensure Mia received it. 

*I’m fine, but can’t be in the tower right now. Please hold off Solia. -V*


Then she left the tower as quickly as she could, melting back into the comforting bustle of Sharnian streets.  

When she returned, she found the others sitting around the table, snacking on various breakfast foods. 

“Look what Brim made me this morning!” Jab said, and Ven looked over to see a small mobile forge Brim had somehow constructed on their balcony. She walked over to Jab, and he lifted his pant leg to show a metal plate that fit snugly against his quad, covering his mark. With a flick, he depressed a mechanism which slid the plate up and down. It was fine work — when down, it looked just like a piece of his construction. 

“Fine work,” she said. 

“Thanks!” Brim responded, beaming. “Are you ok?” she asked after a moment. “You look a little green.”

“Yeah,” Ven replied, unconvincingly. “Are you all ready to go to Morgrave?”
