# Chapter 9


The university was mostly a bust. A gorgeous, marbled, gilded, spacious bust, but a bust nonetheless. Professor Olivier Mehton, Antiquities, assured them he knew nothing of Tarkanan whereabouts, and moreover cautioned them to stay as far away as possible from folks like that. 

Snipe was absolutely positive that Mehton knew more than he left on, but apparently, they did not meet whatever station was needed to persuade him. As they made their way out of the campus, he noticed Brim looking somewhat dejected. 

“Hey, chin up,” he said, perhaps a tad more gruffly than he intended. “No job I’ve ever been hired for has panned out from the first lead.” 

Ven grimaced at him from the other side of the group. 

“Do we have any other leads, though?” she asked. *Fair point. Do you ever crack a smile?* ee thought back, but held his tongue. 

As they re-entered the bustle of Upper Menthis, Snipe felt a peculiar sensation, one he’d always had, but had honed, carefully, precisely, over the years to keep him alive. A tingle, the hair on his neck raising, goosebumps prickling under his sleeves. 

“We’re being followed,” he said. 

The rest of the party just looked at him dumbly for a moment, before Jab said, 

“Sorry, followed?” 

“Yes. I can’t explain it. It’s like... I make a passing note of everyone in the streets. I sense something familiar. Someone from earlier is here again now.” 

“And you’re sure that’s related to us?” Ven said, now beginning to look nervously from side to side. 

“Yes. And stop swinging your head around, we don’t want them to know they’ve been made.” 

“Uh Oh!” said Jab. 

Snipe’s eyes darted around to Jab, who was staring off to an alley over their shoulder. Following his eyeline, Snipe turned to see a hooded figure leaned up against the corner of the alley. Watching them. He wasn’t sure if it was a trick of the light, but their eyes almost appeared to smoulder with orange flame. 

For a moment that seemed to lock off, stretching unnaturally long, the figure and Jab held eye contact. Then, the eyes darted to Snipes, for a seemingly instant fraction of a second. Then the figure was gone. 

“Fuck!” Snipe yelled, “That’s our lead! Let’s go!” 

He felt his legs pumping beneath him, powering him forward; he considered shifting, then held back. He could hear the heavy footfalls of Jab next to him. The others would be slower. 

Careening into the alley, Snipe clocked the dark shapes littering his path — garbage strewn around, and one large, overflowing crate of it. There was enough room to squeeze around it, but he’d have to slow down. 

*No,* he growled, and leaped forward, now shifting, feeling his skin crackle and harden, fur sprouting, muscles seemingly unfurling into existence. With a final leap from all fours, he cleared the top of the crates in time to see their quarry darting to the right down the next street. 

Snipe sprinted forward, skidding around the corner and into a wide boulevard that, for the moment, seemed to be hosting a large number of food carts. Sharnians milled about, queueing up to grab their favorite lunches. Ahead of him, the figure was making a beeline for the densest part of the crowd. 

In his shifted form, Snipe gained ground quickly. By the time the figure dived into the crowd, he could almost reach out and grab their cloak. 

“Hey!” was all the warning he got from a surprised food vendor as a hot wok of frying oil came flying directly at his face. Snipe dived out of the way, leaving an unfortunate bugbear to scream out as the oil caught on their fur. 

*So they’re not afraid to injure. Probably aren’t afraid to kill, either,* Snipe thought.* Tread carefully. *

Behind him, he could hear Jab attempting to navigate the crowd as yells and sounds of alarm began spreading through. 

Snipe slowed his pace, both to conserve energy, and because the assailant was leaving a path of destruction through the crowd. Easier to focus on avoiding a broken ankle being trampled by the crowd, which was now shifting and roiling unpredictably. He could follow the path. 

Emerging from the end of the streetcarts, Snipe’s eyes darted forward until he re-acquired the hooded figure, who was heading into another alley. Snipe redoubled his efforts, grateful for the brief reprieve from outright sprinting. He dived after the figure into the alley, which was a short one, leading to another road. 

Snipe skidded to a halt. He had burst out onto a street that wrapped around the exterior of the district. Before him was a railing, followed by a 25 foot chasm before the next tower. Sailing across that gap was the figure, whose hood now flew back to reveal a shock of orange-red hair. They rolled out of a landing on the other side of what Snipe knew would be a fall of hundreds, if not thousands of feet.  

He glanced left and right, seeking bridges, and saw that the nearest was around 40 feet up the street. 

*Not close enough,* he thought. *Here goes nothing. *

Backing up into the alley, he saw Jab sprinting down toward him. 

“We have to jump, long jump!” he screamed as he turned and fell into a sprint next to him. 
	
The two ran forward. Snipe could hear the blood pounding in his ears, and over that, the sounds of hissing and whirring as Jab’s body made mechanical preparations for a long jump. 

Then nothing. A brief moment of weightlessness, arms pinwheeling around him for balance, not by any means looking down, and then the ground rushing up to meet him. He ducked and rolled, not as gracefully as he’d have liked, but without serious injury. His shoulder would be sore in the morning. 

As they sprinted deeper into the more industrial district, he felt a shiver of something propel him further. Is this rage? He’d never been one to attach himself to any particular job — even a two thousand galifar job. But these fuckers hurt him. 

*There’s answers here.* He could feel a small, but alien energy flowing flowing through his veins, the sensation of it heightened by his shifted state. He knew instinctively where it emanated from – his lower calf, where the new dragonmark had emerged from beneath his skin. He resisted the urge to glance behind him, but it felt almost like tendrils of red energy were splashing away from his footfalls, giving him the smallest of boosts with each step. 

Alleys turned to streets, and soon they found themselves running down a large, empty corridor. The back end of warehouses lined each side, and the occasional worker glanced up in surprise at their passage. Several steps ahead, Snipe had their target locked in his vision — so much so he almost missed the subtle swipe of their hand as they, passing a horse being attached to a trailer, slit their dagger deep into its flank. 

The horse reared in pain, and began a mad sprint directly in his direction. Ducking to the side, he left the problem to Jab, who was taking a more gentle approach; he heard a “Woah there!” from behind him and chuckled internally thinking of the machine-like figure trying to soothe the injured creature. 

As the hooded figure peeled off into a warehouse whose gates were open, Snipe chanced a look behind him to evaluate the status of his party. Jab had managed to just barely calm the horse, and the thoroughfare was long enough that he could see Ven and Brim, looking significantly more winded, approaching from the end. They must’ve taken the bridge, Snipe thought. Not UN-wise. 

He turned his attention to his task, and cut hard, reverting to all fours momentarily to tack into the open doors of the warehouse... which turned out not to be a warehouse at all, but quickly resolved into what was clearly a mechanical workshop, with 8 bays on either side each with half-deconstructed sky coaches inside. Mechanics were already yelling as, halfway down the centerline of the room, the figure he was chasing was making as much havoc as possible, flinging carts of wrenches and tools, slamming the occasional brave mechanic out of the way. 

Snipe calculated some odds and took a risk. 

“Sharn Watch!” he yelled. “Stop them!” 

Several of the workers in the shop seemed to break out of their slack-jawed observations of the scene to begin moving toward the figure, seemingly buying Snipe’s deception. But it was too late; the figure burst through the other end of the workshop. 

“Out of the way!” Snipe cried, perhaps a tad too desperately, as he tried to maintain eye contact with his quarry and was now weaving around the milling bodies of the worker’s he’d just called. 

Passing through the open doors, Snipe once moor skidded to a halt, panting. He was in a small lot fenced in to the workshop, and in it, bobbing gently a few feet off the ground, were seemingly-repaired skycoaches, ready to be put back into service. 

Except one, which floated closer to 10 feet up, and had a hooded figure at the controls. They spared him one glance, letting him catch those smouldering orange eyes once more, before they yanked the control rod and sent the ship flying up and over the fenced-in lot and out into the inter tower traffic of Sharn. 

*That’s it,* he thought. *Their one lead, gone.* He had no doubt that Tarkanan — who else would be tailing them? — would be keeping a much more careful distance from now on. 

*Dolurrh!* He wanted answers, for fuck’s sake. He wanted answers, 2000 galifars — *split four ways*, he reminded himself grimly — and a stiff drink in his hand on some far off shore. 

His mood was collapsing through layer after layer of foul until he felt a tap on his shoulder that broke him free. 

“Come on!” panted Ven, pointing at one of the gently bobbing skycoaches. “I can fly these motherfuckers!”

-----

Wind screamed past Jab’s face as he clung desperately to the front of the skycoach. They’d quickly left the indignant yelling of the workshop mechanics behind; he was in the front next to Ven, Brim and Snipe had jumped in the back. 

The presumed Tarkanan agent was up ahead, winding between bridges and towers, not quite visible, but trackabe through the wake of deflected traffic and thaumaturgic honks and sirens, mirroring the internal alarms and responses Jab’s systems were blaring at the unnatural accelerations his body was undergoing. 

Sharn really *was* an exciting city. 

Jab glanced over at Ven, whose brow was furrowed in intensive effort as she attempted to pilot their craft. He thought, despite her general dour demeanor about being in Sharn and interacting with her house, that she might just be enjoying herself. 

He wondered what it was like to have the sort of purpose in life that Ven had seemed to so abhor. He felt the reassuring weight of the spear in his hand, generally disguised as a staff, and considered how his own life may have gone if the Last War hadn’t ended just a few years after his creation.

Despite the thrill of the chase, he found his eyes glancing over balconies and bridges as they flew by, seeking out the distinctive metal glint, reflections off of Warforged like him. It was, he reminded himself, why he was here in the first place. His mind flashed to the serene copse of trees within the Eldeen Woods where the Matrons — the leaders of House d’Geneo, though they themselves were not Warforged — had initiated him, given him his mission. He felt a pang of guilt, knowing he hadn’t really made any progress on it yet.

“Jab! Look out!” 

The frantic yelp of Ven next to him broke him from his reverie as his mind picked out the two blurs of metal hurling his way. He didn’t even quite see them, but his processors activated a protective protocol anyhow, and his arm instinctively shot out and cleanly grabbed the missile from the air, his head tilting just enough to avoid the other one. 

He heard a grunt of pain from behind him, and turned in horror to see a dagger — identical to one in his hand — sticking out of Brim’s shoulder. Where the blade had pierced her, dark tendrils seemed to be pulsing out under Brim’s skin. He cocked his head to the side. 

“Looks like poison,” he said, appraising. He examined the one he had caught, and dragging his finger, was able to lift a small sheen of greenish liquid off of it. It seemed to emanate it, though he could see no holes or other means of delivery. He was, thankfully, immune to most poisons... though a strong acid might cause him some issues. 

He had little time to ponder further as the skycoach lurched downward, careening into the depths of the towers below.

“They’re diving,” Ven bit out as they dived after, the skycoach shuddering under the forces. 

“We’ve got company!” Snipe called from behind them. Jab twisted over his shoulder to see two skycoaches, emblazoned with the colors of the Sharn Watch, amplified bells ringing. 

*Huh,* he thought. *Wonder what we’ll say to get out of this one. *
	
Ven appeared to be trying not to take that chance. They ducked and weaved downward, barely missing the primarily planar traffic flying at various levels. It was mere moments in this dive, but Jab registered the change in brightness, the wider towers blocking more and more of the sunlight as they reached the lower depths of the city. 

As they saw a ground — not a true ground, but the roof of a lower city district — rapidly approaching, Ven yanked the control rod, pulling them out of the dive. Jab managed it alright, but the rest of his group seemed to almost squish and deform downward into their seats under the pressure. Brim looked extra queasy, but maybe that was the poison.

Curling around a corner, the clanging of the Sharn Watch still behind them, they came upon a scene of wreckage. An industrial yard had been thoroughly smashed by a high speed collision, and the shards of wood at the end of the crater left no doubt it was the other skycoach. 

“Looks like they bailed,” Ven said through gritted teeth. “Time for us to do the same.” 	

She banked them around, still struggling to control the skyoach at the intense speed it still carried from the dive. They were strafing the perimeter of a tower, which had streets in levels built into its side. 

“There’s no way to slow down,” she yelled over her shoulder. “Something broke during the dive! We’ll have to jump!” 

Jump? Jab wasn’t sure he’d heard correctly. The street wrapping the tower was flying by them in a blur. How were they supposed to make that? 

“The token!” he heard Brim call from behind. Right! The featherfall token from the cocktail. 

“It can handle up to 6,” Snipe yelled over the rush of the wind. “Just imagine us slowing down as we jump!” 

Ven banked the ship up onto its side, giving them a dizzying view of the street and tower above them, open sky to their left and the ground and deeper chasms still to their right. 
“Now!” Ven called, and pushed the rod down, peeling the ship away from them and out away from the tower. Jab pushed off of the surface, feeling the immediate drop that accompanied, as they all flew in loose, ragged formation toward the street, which hurtled toward them at deadly pace. 

And then suddenly, they slowed. Their motion was now a gentle one, down toward the street itself, their horizontal movement also braking at an uncomfortable, but not splattered on the pavement uncomfortable, rate. They landed with four thuds, curses acompanying, before confirming they were all uninjured.

“We gotta move,” came a hurried whisper from Snipe, and they hustled to step into the shadows as soon as they stood. Moments later, the Sharn Watch in their skycoaches whooshed past, bells still clanging. A moment of silence passed, then another. Jab heard his companions let out a long breath. He gazed around the street, but it appeared to be deserted.

“Glad we’re alive!” he said, trying to break the tension. “That was some crazy flying, Ven.” 

He watched her carefully for a reaction, and after a moment, she returned an expression that seemed half a smile and half a grimace. 

“Thanks,” she said. “I may not have a Lyrandar mark, but I still learned a thing or two, hijacking these things as a kid.” 

The silence hung again. It was a distinct, “post-near-death” silence, one that Jab realized had hung over them more than once already. Brim’s laughter, tinged with clear pain from the blade still in her shoulder, finally broke out over the group, and then they were all laughing, releasing the nerves and, at least for Jab, marveling in the ridiculousness of the past day, past hour, past minute. 
“Not to be the buzzkill…” Snipe broke in, as the laugh began subsiding, Brim wiping a tear from her eye. 
“Yeah, yeah, the chase and all that,” Ven replied, "But first, let's get this dagger out of Brim." 