# Chapter 1

"So, you survived the hazing ritual then," Saira laughed, sipping her chai. "I'm surprised they let you all have the day off, though." 

Khalid wasn't smiling. 

"Habibty... they're doing really bad things in there." 

"Well, yeah, it's the government. They're doing bad things definitionally. That's why we're robbing them." 

"No, it's," he struggled for words. "Something happened to me last night. Something bad. My memories of it are hazy. But look, the plan is off, okay?"

Saira's jaw nearly hit the floor. 

"You've got to be kidding me," she said. "This is a joke. Haha very funny." 

"I'm serious." 

"No, *I'm* serious! We've spent more than four years of our lives toiling over this plan. You've studied more inane bullshit than any person ought to know in their life, and I've worked my ass off at the bar trying to fund this whole thing. Which I have. I might add." 

"It doesn't matter---" he began, before being cut off again. 

"It *does* matter. Because we are in debt to some very bad, very angry people. Because nothing we could possibly steal in a hundred years outside the Cognoza's library would be worth one relic script from inside. Because the high priests have sucked the auroras dry, and blueprints for cogs have gone nonexistent, and a single blueprint will give us the ability to live some semblance of an actual life. And I don't want to die. Not here, not now, and definitely not in the slums of Aeurtuhm."


Khalid shook his head sadly. 

"Saira, they didn't give us the day off. I left. They're probably searching for me now. They'll kill me if they find me, same as the Dhakeen would."

Now, slowly, his words began to sink in, and her face paled. 

"Go back!" She scrambled to her feet. "Tell them you got cold feet but changed your mind! Gods sake Khalid don't fuck this up!!" 

"You don't understand," he said quietly. "The high priests have a secret. To how they stay in power, quell the rebellions, keep enemies from landing on our shores. They told us what it was..."

She glared at him expectantly. 

"And?"

And... he grasped at it, but it was like sand in his fingers. 

"And I can't remember. It was last night, Saira, so why can't I remember?"

She sat back down slowly, grabbing her tea and stirring it, peering at him with new eyes. 

"Gods, Khalid... I don't know. Drugs?" 

He shrugged miserably. "All I know is that whatever it was, while I could still remember, I thought it was bad enough that I chose to give up on our plan and run."

Saira grimaced. "Could you have... you know. Burned them? The memories?"

"Obviously not," he snapped. "Why would I burn the one set of memories that would allow me to explain to you what the fuck I went through? Besides. I didn't need to manifest anything to escape the temple. I... I don't think people normally leave once they're initiated." 

He felt a flash, through his mind. A golden mask. 

"Are you ok??" Saira was shaking him. "Your eyes went goddamned white for a second. I thought a Djinn had taken you."  

He grunted. "Maybe that would be preferable. I think I'm... connected to one of the high priests. I can feel him." He shuddered. 

"Which one?"

"How the fuck should I know? They all wear those fucking masks," he said dourly.

"Right. I just thought, you know, maybe in your head..."

He groaned and leaned back on the thick tent wall of their hovel. 

"Look," Saira reasoned, slowly. "You said they do bad shit, like really bad. Presumably to all the initiates. Some of them must run away right? You can't be the only person in a class of 200 to know something was fucked. I bet they're used to it. You're an asset they've already spent a lot of time training. Just go back. See if they'll let you in. If it seems like they're going to fuck you over we'll cut and run. I promise."

Khalid tried to consider it, but the rapidly forming headache was quickly overwhelming his senses.  

"It was only fifty, by the end," he muttered, before slipping into unconsciousness. 

-----

*Well, this is fucked,* Saira thought. *Guess I'll smoke a hookah about it.*

She threw a blanket over Khalid, stopping to sneak a kiss to his forehead, and surveyed the tent. He looked convincingly like a heap of fabrics once she ruffled the blanket over him a bit. 

Ducking out of the tent, she made her way down the alley and out into one of the narrow streets of Aeurtuhm's smelliest district. She felt nervous about leaving Khalid, but her mind was reeling and she needed to clear her head. Not to mention that if a priest of the Cognozi made an appearance in the slums, the ruckus would draw her attention without a doubt. 

Hookah bars absolutely littered the district, tucked into every stone nook and sometimes even just out on the streets, the baking sun held back by the thinnest of colored fabric shades. But Saira knew the key to smoking in peace without gagging was to abandon ground level. 

She peeled off into a nondescript alley that quickly turned into a stone staircase, wedged between two adjacent buildings. A few minutes later, huffing a not-insignificant amount and cringing at the sweat soaking the inside of her kamiz, she arrived at her destination. 

Though the rooftop was a regrettable forty feet closer to the relentless sun, its awnings were of sturdier fabrics, and a light breeze drifting across the city's rooftops gave a passable effort at keeping her cool. 

She immediately plunked down on one of the pillows arrayed in the space, as a servant brought a hookah over to her and placed it down. 

Across the rooftops, she could see the city's obelisks cutting through the skyline, standing watch over their surroundings. She often felt the city was one giant trap for a god-bird that might fall from the sky and impale itself upon Aeurtuhm's many spikes. 

The Yergheis district was in the southwest corner of the city, downhill from the majority of it. And downwind. Rooftops poked ever higher as she gazed north, eventually dwarfed by the inner walls which, paired with the slope, blocked view of the nicer districts. Yergheis wasn't quite a tent city; there were buildings here, in fact, the stone, flat-topped structures were older and more densely packed than the majority of the city. But the newer sections of the city had blocked off old, natural drainages, and now, the once or twice a year it rained, Yergheis flooded with a vengeance. 

During the floods, the half transient, half local population of the district would clamber up to the rooftops. In between the floods, well, no one was willing to buy a home that would be flooded yearly. Some lived in upper stories of abandoned buildings, but most lived in tents lashed up between the windows lining the many alleys and streets. Saira's was lashed down to the ground --- easier to get in and out of, but also easier to rob. Above her tent, more were held taught between the buildings, floating on air. Every alley had at least three levels of hanging tents, swaying gently one atop the other like a tower gone drunk.

It was a great place to lay low. *And honestly not that bad,* Saira mused. The buildings often left the alleyways somewhat shaded, the tents could be taken down and moved to another alley at moments notice. If it weren't for the smell...

Puffing pensively, Saira considered their situation. A tiny voice in the back of her head pointed out that now would be the time to cut and run, to not get wrapped up in whatever clearly-dangerous nonsense Khalid was now in. She could disappear into the city in moments and Khalid would never find her again. But then, her creditors were another story. 

She swatted the thoughts away as she did the flies that were brave enough to assault her face. Khalid could be frustrating, but he was the closest thing she had to a friend, a companion, a sibling --- in Aeurtuhm, anyone you could count on deserved a place of respect in your heart. Besides, they'd planned the job together, and the prize was as much her right as his. 

*As are the consequences*, she reminded herself. 

The obvious answer was to get Khalid back in. She believed him that the priesthood was fucked up. Neuromantic power was fucked up as it was. She had no doubt the priests had worked out vile and ethically reprehensible ways of extending their power. 

But he didn't need to spend his life there. He just needed to stay in long enough to get access to the library and obtain a reasonable excuse to visit it. She didn't know what the timeline for fucked up shit was for incoming priests, but she had to think it wasn't *all* in the first week, right?

Nevertheless, the cogs in her mind were already churning, considering the possibility they'd have to bail town. Gears ground against bad solutions. There weren't many ways out of Aeurtuhm, and none of the existing ways were cheap. 

Particularly not cheap and quiet. The Dhakeen had eyes around the city and knew well the sordid details of every caravan arriving and departing Aeurtuhm's walls. Smuggling was, after all, their core business. 

Leasing a camel was likewise off the table; it would be harder to track, but more expensive, and Saira didn't fancy their chances alone in the desert. 

That pretty much left the river as the only feasible option. Riverboats passed through frequently enough that the Dhakeen couldn't possibly monitor all of them. They also couldn't afford passage, but they could make do stowing away, slipping overboard when things got hot and trying to climb aboard the next passing vessel. She tried not to think about the wildlife of the river as this plan formulated. 

She was three towns and two transfers downriver of Aeurtuhm when she felt a presence plop down onto the cushions opposite her hookah. 

"Ahh, Saira, looking beautiful as a starflower as always," the deep voice rumbled across the space between them.

"And just as poisonous," she replied dutifully, rolling her eyes but handing over the hookah nonetheless. As the man across from her puffed, she adjusted her headscarf slightly, feeling the prickle at the back of her neck. 

"No need to be nervous *sokar*," he purred. "Just a friendly visit." 

Shockingly, the supplication did not give Saira much confidence. The man across from her was, to her knowledge, roughly her age. But with a flick of his wrist, he might fling her from the rooftop without much effort. His muscles flexed under dark skin, belaying the hidden power she knew they carried. 

"And what brings me the honor of a friendly visit?" She held out a hand, trying to appear more confident than she was, and he passed the hose handle back to her casually, letting the rough calluses of his fingers brush a moment longer than necessary against her palm. 

Saira took a deep inhale. 

"A friend cannot check in on a friend?" he asked, ever the gentlemen, before his brows furrowed. "We, of course, are friends. We have no ill-will in our hearts for each other. I wish it to stay this way, of course, but our mutual friends grow restless, and perhaps would be set at ease by some sense of your progress." 

Regarding him coolly, Saira said "Everything proceeds to plan, Nasr. I did not speak lightly when I offered a script, and I am... within a month of supplying it." 

Nasr stretched out on the cushions, not unlike a large cat. "Wonderful. This is good news to hear. Although, I must admit, I have heard whispers among our friends that your promises are nothing more than wavering air above the desert. Have you anything to convince them your posturing is not such a mirage?"

Saira chose her words carefully. She had, with great difficulty, managed to keep Khalid's name out of her negotiations with the Dhakeen. Not just to protect him, either; as soon as her operative on the inside was compromised, the Dhakeen were likely to simply cut her from the equation and pressure him directly. 

"As you know," she said, "The Cognozi have just ascended a new class of initiates into their ranks."

Nasr raised an eyebrow. "Ah, and presumably one of these little priests is a friend of yours." 

Saira now took the opportunity to stretch, holding the mouthpiece, elongating her form and allowing the curves of her garb to accentuate her form. "Friend, perhaps. Someone who has agreed to do me a favor." 

She watched carefully as Nasr made the connections she hoped he would. It wouldn't help either her or Khalid for the Dhakeen to know they were mutually leveragable against each other. Better for him to think she'd enthralled a hapless initiate. 

"Forgive my impertinence," Nasr drawled, reaching out and swiping the mouthpiece, "but *mozza* or no, I struggle to believe a new priest would give it all up for a woman." 

Saira rolled her eyes. *Have you met a young man recently?*

"Let's just say that my *friend* believes that many good things will happen for him and his family if he helps me, at minimal risk. And by many good things, I mean *not* many bad things." 

A booming laugh filled the rooftop as Nasr bellowed, smoke venting from his mouth and nose. "Ah Saira, I do think you are my favorite friend. I dare not ask who you have enforcing such an agreement, but with wits like this about you, I wager you could easily be a member of our family."

Saira shrugged. "It is too bad you do not accept new family with any debt."

Nasr's face briefly darkened, his eyes flashing in the shade between them. 

"Indeed," he said. "Some things come first." 

Thankfully, Nasr then stood, placing the mouthpiece gently onto the ashtray. Saira felt the gooseflesh on her neck. Nasr cracked a few knuckles, then winked at her.

"One month," he said. "I shall pass this along. But I will tell you this for free. I imagine they will give you two weeks. So you best flash whatever that boy in the priesthood needs to get a move on." 

With that, he absconded the rooftop, moving far more lithely and quietly than a man of his size should. 

Saira took a shuddering breath. *Well, Khalid had better go back,* she thought.









