# Chapter 2

Khalid knelt before the priest Cognozi in an antechamber of the high temple, head bowed. Makrim had been the teacher for some of his classes, and evidently was charged with dealing with runaways. 

"I'm sorry Maram Makrim," he said. "After the ceremony, I was disoriented and scared. I just wanted to see my family."

The lie almost caught in his throat, but then he was thought of Saira, figured that was close enough, and powered onward. 

"I should have come to you, I know this. I just, I could not even remember much of the ceremony..."

This was the dangerous part of the lie. Khalid hoped such loss of memory was a common after effect --- he could easily imagine it happening to him if he hadn't been focusing so strongly on remembering. 

He felt a hand touch his down-turned chin and raise it up. The man’s dark brown skin was wrinkled around his eyes, and he smiled. The paternal nature of it sent a shiver through Khalid, and he tried not to recoil. Or vomit. 

"It is alright, young one," he said kindly. 

*He never learned my name,* Khalid thought. 

"The day after the ceremony can indeed be frightening and disorienting. You are not alone in this. But you fulfilled the initiation admirably, and you deserve to take your place in the ranks of the Cognozi." 

Khalid let out a tremoring breath he didn't know he was holding. 

"Thank you elder," he said, bowing his head again. "My head is clear now, as is my purpose." He hoped that was the sort of drivel that Makrim wanted to hear. 

Makrim stood, sweeping his arms. "I am gladdened to hear it, child. And while I would raise you into our ranks without haste, alas the priesthood has its rules. So you shall spend one month in prayer and fast with the acolytes, to focus your intents, and meet once per week with the scepteram to demonstrate your academic retention." 

Khalid felt his heart sink. He *couldn't* spend a month here. Especially not with the acolytes. He may have been a fake initiate, but he'd earned his way in and survived the classes --- the acolytes were dumb, manipulatable fervents, beggars and idolants from the streets clamoring for a dribbling of power. He had no desire to spend time around them, nor to fast, nor to rehash his lessons with the scepteram.

Grinding his teeth in frustration, he said
"Yes Maram, this seems a wise and appropriate practice to purify me for the ascent."

"Yalla, then, and to the temple courtyard with you," Makrim said, waving a hand in dismissal. 

*Pompous dog,* Khalid thought as he exited. 



The courtyard of the temple was open to the air --- and the heat --- and was the only portion of the temple accessible to the public. Acolytes milled about, having been granted low level jobs to aid the priests within: taking testimony and offerings, cleaning the pillars, other equally inane things, as far as Khalid saw it,

In the courtyard’s center rose the obelisk which marked it as Aeurtuhm’s high temple. It towered over the courtyard, and he knew, the surrounding city. Though tucked within the grand inner walls, he knew it was visible from almost anywhere in Aeurtuhm. 

Its five sides of smoothed, polished stone held carved depictions of the five neuromantic arts. He circled slowly taking in the images of great heroes burning their memories of training to strengthen their speed and agility in combat, of sorcerers channeling their grief and trauma, or, on the next panel over, their joy, to wreck their will upon the world. One panel showed no figures, only the impression of a relic script --- a detailed blueprint of an ancient weapon that a cognitoneuromancer, or cog, could manifest into reality, albeit temporarily. 

*I wonder how many try to use this script,* he thought, knowing full well the inscription was riddled with deliberate errors that would prevent it from manifesting. 

The final panel simply held columns and columns of etched numbers. Khalid knew it to be a fundamental, infinite number, the circumference of a circle divided by its diameter. He scoffed. Arithroneuromancy was by far the weakest of the arts. 

Khalid felt a tingle in his fingertips, an itch, to dip into his mind and bring something forth. Cogs were always jumpy to manifest; holding complex designs and plans was more challenging than simply incorporating memories of monotonous combat training. After a while, the memories faded, and weakened the manifestation. 

But Khalid held himself. He'd had enough of his mind being fucked with for one day. 

Instead, he trudged over to the entrance to the courtyard, where Aasim, the acolyte in charge stood pouring water from a clay jug into the outstretched hands of supplicants. 

"Aasim," he said, injecting a false cheer into his voice, and a hint of supplication that would, he hoped, immediately go to Aasim's head. "Might I lend you a hand here in the courtyard?" 

Aasim turned to him and grinned. 

"Yes, of course," he said, waving an arm, "I welcome all initiates who wish to further commit themselves to our temple here amongst the common folk." His grin vanished. "Of course, I know that *you* are only here upon word of Maram Makrim, for what punishment I cannot imagine. So if you think you will weasel past me for quick passage back into the Valley, you are sorely mistaken." 

Khalid resisted the urge to groan, Saira's words ringing in his skull. *Two weeks,* he thought. *The net is closing.*

And so when Aasim handed him a bucket full of wet rags and imperiously commanded him to scrub the pillars, he bowed without complaint and set toward his task.

\switchchar{*

Saira sat in a small coffee stall tucked into a side street of the Faraami district that emptied onto Aeurtuhm's grand square. She shifted her weight about constantly, trying to keep the shadow of the thin, fluttering fabric of the awning above her over her face. She was mostly unsuccessful. 

Out on the square, hundreds of workers moved like ants in overlapping diagonal paths, taking advantage of the open space to traverse from the western marketplaces to the eastern governmental districts without cramming through claustrophobic alleys. On the other side of the square, a massive, temple-like structure rose above the city around it, its imposing facade casting a blessed shadow at its base within which many overheated stray cats and dogs lounged. 

Saira knew the building well --- at least, from the outside. She had cased the Library of Aeurtuhm a dozen times, probing and prodding for its weaknesses, for any late-night opportunities it provided to slip inside. She had found none, of course. That was why Khalid was suffering his way into priesthood. 

*There must be something,* she thought bitterly. With things going as they were with Khalid, Saira was growing increasingly concerned she may have to breach the library herself. At minimum, to carve an exit route for Khalid once he made it inside. 

The front of the library was a sheer wall of stone, hundreds of feet high, inset with two massive wooden doors. Saira had no idea what mechanism could open such things, but it would not be her. Two bored guards stood at either side of the doors, occasionally tossing scraps to the arrayed animals. They were right to be bored; in all her time gazing longingly at the library, she had never once seen those doors open. 

A loop around the library would reveal three high walls connecting to the facade, not as tall, but still frustratingly unscaleable. The press of Aeurtuhm cared not for the sacred library; buildings butted up all the way to the walls, sometimes leaving no alley space at all, the corners of stone buildings scraping against the walls. This did not help Saira, however, as the roofs of these buildings were still dozens of feet below the wall's height. 

And, of course, there were guards who walked the ramparts, eyes keen for any ropes or black-clad girls looking to rob them of their treasures. 

No public plans for what lay inside those walls were available, but Saira had bribed enough of the right type of government worker to learn the basic layout. A courtyard lay behind the facade, lined on each side with small administrative buildings, and at the rear, the library itself. She'd heard it was not much to look at; evidently, the majority of it was underground, the actual above ground portion resembling a dull, single steppe. This building reportedly also had a single point of entry --- a door opening onto the courtyard. No windows (a thought which made Saira shudder), and walls several thick feet in solid stone.

She had heard rumors, unsubstantiated, that some government buildings on the eastern rise had underground tunnels which led directly to the library. *Lovely, if they weren't likely manned by guards armed to the teeth at both ends, and the middles for good measure.* 

Saira sighed. *This is why our plan was so wise. Why break into an impregnable fortress when you can simply waltz in legally?* Four years was hardly that long, for the value of what they might find inside.


